>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING,
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
JUDY WOODRUFF. >> Ifill:
AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT,
ANOTHER ROUND OF ELECTIONS IN
STORE FOR GREECE, AFTER TOUGH
BAILOUT NEGOTIATIONS, A
REBELLION IN PARLIAMENT AND A
MAJORITY LOST, THE NEW PRIME
MAJORITY LOST, THE NEW
PRIME MINISTER RESIGNS.
MINISTER RESIGNS.
>> Ifill: THEN...
>> Ifill: THEN... >> I'LL
BE PREPARED FOR ANYTHING
>> I'LL BE PREPARED FOR
ANYTHING THAT COMES.
THAT COMES. >> Ifill:
PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER
ANNOUNCES HIS CANCER HAS SPREAD
ANNOUNCES HIS CANCER HAS
SPREAD TO HIS BRAIN.
TO HIS BRAIN. >> Woodruff:
PLUS, NEW RESEARCH
>> Woodruff: PLUS, NEW RESEARCH
RAISES QUESTIONS OVER HOW WE
TREAT EARLY STAGES OF BREAST
TREAT EARLY STAGES
OF BREAST CANCER.
CANCER. >> Ifill:
AND, DON'T BUY THIS
>> Ifill: AND, DON'T
BUY THIS JACKET.
JACKET. CLOTHING
RETAILER PATAGONIA'S
CLOTHING RETAILER PATAGONIA'S
SEEMINGLY COUNTERINTUITIVE
MESSAGE, TO CONSUME LESS AND
REPAIR CLOTHES SO THEY CAN LIVE
REPAIR CLOTHES SO THEY
CAN LIVE ANOTHER DAY.
ANOTHER DAY. >> WE
WANT OUR CUSTOMERS TO
>> WE WANT OUR CUSTOMERS TO
INVEST IN GREAT PRODUCT AND WHEN
IT'S WORN OUT, WE WANT TO REPAIR
IT'S WORN OUT, WE WANT
TO REPAIR IT FOR THEM.
IT FOR THEM. >> IT
DOESN'T SOUND ECONOMICAL
>> IT DOESN'T SOUND
ECONOMICAL FOR THE COMPANY.
FOR THE COMPANY. >> BUT
THE WAY WE VIEW IT, IS
>> BUT THE WAY WE VIEW IT,
IS THAT WE WANT TO REDUCE
THAT WE WANT TO
REDUCE CONSUMPTION.
CONSUMPTION. >> Woodruff:
ALL THAT AND MORE
>> Woodruff: ALL THAT AND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THIS WAS WALL STREET'S
WORST DAY IN A YEAR AND A HALF,
AS THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS
PLUNGED NEARLY 360 POINTS.
THE SELL-OFF WAS DRIVEN BY
GROWING TURMOIL ON CHINA'S
MARKETS, AND FALLING ENERGY
PRICES.CELERATED LATE IN THE DA,
AS PROGRAMMED SELLING KICKED IN.
AS PROGRAMMED SELLING KICKED
IN. IN THE END, THE DOW JONES
IN THE END, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST 358
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST
358 POINTS TO CLOSE BELOW
POINTS TO CLOSE BELOW 17,000.
17,000. THE NASDAQ
FELL 140 POINTS, AND
THE NASDAQ FELL 140 POINTS,
AND THE S&P 500 DROPPED 44.
THE S&P 500 DROPPED 44. THE
DECLINES ON THE DOW AND THE
THE DECLINES ON THE DOW AND THE
S&P AMOUNTED TO ABOUT 2%. THE
NASDAQ LOSS WAS NEARLY 3%.
NASDAQ LOSS WAS NEARLY 3%. >>
Woodruff: WILDFIRES IN THE
>> Woodruff: WILDFIRES IN THE
WESTERN U.S. TURNED DEADLY AGAIN
WESTERN U.S. TURNED DEADLY
AGAIN OVERNIGHT, KILLING THREE
OVERNIGHT, KILLING THREE
FIREFIGHTERS IN NORTHERN
WASHINGTON STATE.
WASHINGTON STATE. OFFICIALS
SAID A HELLSTORM OF
OFFICIALS SAID A HELLSTORM OF
FLAME CAUGHT THEM AFTER THEIR
VEHICLE CRASHED NEAR THE TOWN OF
VEHICLE CRASHED NEAR
THE TOWN OF TWISP.
TWISP. THEY'RE THE LATEST OF 13
THEY'RE THE LATEST OF 13
FIREFIGHTERS TO DIE THIS YEAR.
>> THESE ARE THREE BIG HEROES
PROTECTING SMALL TOWNS AND WE
ARE GOING TO REMEMBER THEM AND
ARE GOING TO REMEMBER THEM
AND THERE ARE SEVEN MILLION
THERE ARE SEVEN MILLION
WASHINGTONIANS THAT TODAY ARE
EMBRACING THEM AND THEIR
FAMILIES AND PRAYING FOR THEM
AND HOPING FOR THE SPEEDY
RECOVERY OF OUR INJURED.
RECOVERY OF OUR INJURED. THESE
ARE PEOPLE WHO WERE LOST
THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO WERE LOST
DOING WHAT FIREFIGHTERS DO,
WHICH IS TO RUSH TOWARD THE FIRE
WHICH IS TO RUSH TOWARD THE
FIRE RATHER THAN AWAY.
RATHER THAN AWAY. >>
Woodruff: HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE
>> Woodruff: HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE
POURED OUT OF TWISP AND A
NBO ESCAPE THE FLAMES.
NBO ESCAPE THE FLAMES. >>
Ifill: THE SAME HEAT THAT'S
>> Ifill: THE SAME HEAT THAT'S
FUELING WILDFIRES MADE JULY THE
HOTTEST MONTH EVER RECORDED ON
HOTTEST MONTH EVER
RECORDED ON EARTH.
EARTH. THE NATIONAL OCEANIC AND
THE NATIONAL OCEANIC AND
ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION SAYS
THAT GOES BACK TO 1880, WHEN
THAT GOES BACK TO 1880,
WHEN RECORD-KEEPING BEGAN.
RECORD-KEEPING BEGAN. ACCORDING
TO NOAA, THE AVERAGE
ACCORDING TO NOAA, THE AVERAGE
LAND AND SEA TEMPERATURE WAS
61.86 DEGREES, A FRACTION HOTTER
61.86 DEGREES, A FRACTION
HOTTER THAN THE OLD RECORD.
THAN THE OLD RECORD. AND,
THE SPAN OF JANUARY THROUGH
AND, THE SPAN OF JANUARY THROUGH
JULY WAS ALSO THE HOTTEST EVER
FOR THAT SEVEN MONTH PERIOD.
>> Woodruff: COMMUNITY LEADERS
IN ST. LOUIS APPEALED FOR CALM
TODAY, AFTER THE KILLING OF A
BLACK TEENAGER SPARKED NEW
BLACK TEENAGER
SPARKED NEW TROUBLE.
TROUBLE. POLICE SAY
THEY SHOT MANSUR
POLICE SAY THEY SHOT MANSUR
BALLBEY EARLY YESTERDAY WHEN HE
BALLBEY EARLY YESTERDAY WHEN
HE POINTED A GUN DURING A DRUG
POINTED A GUN DURING
A DRUG SEARCH.
SEARCH. HOURS LATER,
POLICE FIRED TEAR
HOURS LATER, POLICE FIRED TEAR
GAS AT PROTESTERS AND ARRESTED
NINE PEOPLE THEY SAID WERE
THROWING BRICKS AND BOTTLES.
TODAY, LOCAL CLERGY APPEALED TO
TODAY, LOCAL CLERGY
APPEALED TO BOTH SIDES.
BOTH SIDES. >> UNTIL PEOPLE TAKE
>> UNTIL PEOPLE TAKE
RESPONSIBILITY AS TO WHAT'S
GOING ON, THIS IS NOT GOING TO
GOING ON, THIS IS
NOT GOING TO STOP.
STOP. WE CAN PUT
PEOPLE UP HERE IN
WE CAN PUT PEOPLE UP HERE IN
FRONT OF THE CAMERA ALL WE WANT.
IT'S NOT GOING TO STOP UNTIL
THERE'S A GREAT DIALOGUE.
THERE'S A GREAT DIALOGUE. AND
THE DIALOGUE IS, IS THAT:
AND THE DIALOGUE IS, IS
THAT: EVERYONE IS AT FAULT.
EVERYONE IS AT FAULT. >>
Woodruff: TENSIONS HAVE BEEN
>> Woodruff: TENSIONS HAVE BEEN
RUNNING HIGH SINCE THE POLICE
KILLING OF MICHAEL BROWN IN THE
ST. LOUIS SUBURB OF FERGUSON,
ONE YEAR AGO THIS MONTH.
>> Ifill: RISING TENSIONS
BETWEEN THE TWO KOREAS ERUPTED
INTO ARTILLERY FIRE TODAY.
INTO ARTILLERY FIRE TODAY. THE
NORTH FIRED SEVERAL SHELLS,
THE NORTH FIRED SEVERAL SHELLS,
AND THE SOUTH ANSWERED WITH
DOZENS OF ROUNDS OF ITS OWN.
THERE WERE NO REPORTS OF
CASUALTIES, BUT SCORES OF PEOPLE
WERE EVACUATED FROM AT LEAST ONE
WERE EVACUATED FROM AT LEAST
ONE VILLAGE IN THE SOUTH.
VILLAGE IN THE SOUTH. THEY
TOOK REFUGE IN UNDERGROUND
THEY TOOK REFUGE IN
UNDERGROUND BUNKERS.
BUNKERS. THE TROUBLE'S
BEEN BUILDING
THE TROUBLE'S BEEN BUILDING
SINCE LAND MINES IN THE
DEMILITARIZED ZONE WOUNDED TWO
SOUTH KOREAN SOLDIERS THIS
SOUTH KOREAN
SOLDIERS THIS MONTH.
MONTH. >> Woodruff:
THE MILITARY JUNTA
>> Woodruff: THE MILITARY JUNTA
IN THAILAND IS RULING OUT ANY
LINK BETWEEN THIS WEEK'S BANGKOK
BOMBING AND FOREIGN TERROR
BOMBING AND FOREIGN
TERROR GROUPS.
GROUPS. MONDAY'S BLAST
KILLED 20 OPLEPE
MONDAY'S BLAST KILLED 20 OPLEPE
AND WOUNDED MORE THAN 120
AND WOUNDED MORE
THAN 120 OTHERS.
OTHERS. THERE'S
BEEN WIDE-RANGING
THERE'S BEEN WIDE-RANGING
SPECULATION ABOUT WHO CARRIED
OUT THE ATTACK AND WHY, LEADING
TO THE MILITARY STATEMENT TODAY:
>> (translated): THE
SECURITY
SECURITY AGENCY HAS COLLABORATED
WITH
AGENCY HAS COLLABORATED WITH
INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES FROM A LOT
OF COUNTRIES, AND HAS COME TO
THE SAME PRELIMINARY CONCLUSION
THAT THE INCIDENT IS UNLIKELY TO
THAT THE INCIDENT IS UNLIKELY
TO BE LINKED TO INTERNATIONAL
BE LINKED TO INTERNATIONAL
TERRORISM, AND THAT CHINESE
TOURISTS WERE NOT THE DIRECT
TOURISTS WERE NOT
THE DIRECT TARGET.
TARGET. >> Woodruff:
THE PRIME SUSPECT,
>> Woodruff: THE PRIME SUSPECT,
SPOTTED ON SECURITY VIDEO,
SPOTTED ON SECURITY
VIDEO, REMAINS AT LARGE.
REMAINS AT LARGE. POLICE
TODAY CLEARED TWO OTHER
POLICE TODAY CLEARED TWO OTHER
POTENTIAL SUSPECTS, BUT THEY
SAID IN ALL, AS MANY AS 10
PEOPLE MAY HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN
PEOPLE MAY HAVE BEEN
INVOLVED IN THE PLOT.
THE PLOT. >> Ifill:
IN EGYPT, THE ISLAMIC
>> Ifill: IN EGYPT, THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP CLAIMED
STATE GROUP CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY FOR A CAR BOMBING
THAT WOUNDED AT LEAST 30 PEOPLE
IN A CAIRO SUBURB OVERNIGHT.
DAYLIGHT REVEALED THE EXTENT OF
DAYLIGHT REVEALED THE
EXTENT OF THE DAMAGE.
THE DAMAGE. THE BLAST
RIPPED THROUGH THE
THE BLAST RIPPED THROUGH THE
BUILDING'S FACADE, BLOWING OUT
ITS WINDOWS, AND LEAVING A
ITS WINDOWS, AND LEAVING
A CRATER IN THE ROAD.
CRATER IN THE ROAD. >>
Woodruff: AND, BRITAIN AND
>> Woodruff: AND, BRITAIN AND
FRANCE ANNOUNCED NEW JOINT
EFFORTS TODAY TO STOP THOUSANDS
OF MIGRANTS TRYING TO SNEAK
THROUGH THE CHANNEL TUNNEL.
BRITISH HOME SECRETARY THERESA
MAY AND HER FRENCH COUNTERPART
TOURED SECURITY OPERATIONS IN
HE PTORT CITY OF CALAIS, NEAR
HE PTORT CITY OF CALAIS,
NEAR THE TUNNEL'S ENTRANCE.
THE TUNNEL'S ENTRANCE.
THEY PROMISED MORE GUARDS,
FENCES AND CAMERAS.
FENCES AND CAMERAS. BUT
MAY SAID THAT'S STILL NOT
BUT MAY SAID THAT'S
STILL NOT ENOUGH.
ENOUGH. >> BUT THE
SITUATION WE ARE
>> BUT THE SITUATION WE ARE
FACING IN CALAIS IS THE RESULT
OF A GLOBAL MIGRATION CHALLENGE
AND THAT IS WHY OUR TWO
COUNTRIES WILL CONTINUE TO WORK
CLOSELY TOGETHER TO MAKE SURE
THE REST OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,
AND THE TRANSIT AND SOURCE
COUNTRIES FROM WHICH MIGRANTS
ARE COMING, ARE ALSO PLAYING
THEIR FULL PART IN SOLVING THIS
THEIR FULL PART IN
SOLVING THIS PROBLEM.
PROBLEM. >> Woodruff:
AN ESTIMATED 3,000
>> Woodruff: AN ESTIMATED 3,000
MIGRANTS ARE CAMPED IN CALAIS,
WITH MORE ARRIVING DAILY.
AT LEAST 10 HAVE DIED SINCE
JUNE, TRYING TO GET THROUGH THE
JUNE, TRYING TO GET THROUGH
THE TUNNEL TO BRITAIN.
TUNNEL TO BRITAIN. >>
Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
>> Ifill: STILL TO
COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
NEWSHOUR: REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENTIAL
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES CALL FOR AN END TO
CANDIDATES CALL FOR AN END
TO AMERICAN CITIZENSHIP AS A
AMERICAN CITIZENSHIP
AS A BIRTHRIGHT.
BIRTHRIGHT. PLUS...
PLUS... >> I THINK
THERE IS STILL
>> I THINK THERE IS STILL
SOMETHING OF AN ABIDING
PREJUDICE AGAINST THE GRADUATES
OF MANY COMMUNITY COLLEGES.
>> Ifill: HOW TO INCREASE
GRADUATION RATES FOR THOSE
WHO'VE HAD THE ODDS STACKED
WHO'VE HAD THE ODDS
STACKED AGAINST THEM.
AGAINST THEM. AND MUCH MORE.
>> Woodruff: THERE WAS ANOTHER
DRAMATIC CHAPTER IN THE GREEK
ECONOMIC CRISIS THIS EVENING, AS
PRIME MINISTER ALEXIS TSIPRAS
ANNOUNCED TO HIS NATION THAT
ANNOUNCED TO HIS NATION
THAT HE'S RESIGNINING.
HE'S RESIGNINING. >> MY
FELLOW GREEKS, I LIVE IT
>> MY FELLOW GREEKS, I LIVE
IT UP TO YOUR JUDGMENT AND MY
UP TO YOUR JUDGMENT AND
MY CONSCIENCE IS CLEAR.
CONSCIENCE IS CLEAR. I AM
PROUD OF THE BATTLE MY
I AM PROUD OF THE BATTLE MY
GOVERNMENT AND I HAVE FOUGHT.
WE FOUGHT TO STAY TRUE TO OUR
WE FOUGHT TO STAY
TRUE TO OUR PROMISES.
PROMISES. WE NEGOTIATED HARD AND
WE NEGOTIATED HARD AND
INSISTENTLY FOR A VERY LONG
INSISTENTLY FOR A
VERY LONG TIME.
TIME. WE HELD OUT
AGAINST PRESSURES
WE HELD OUT AGAINST
PRESSURES AND BLACKMAIL.
AND BLACKMAIL. IT'S TRUE,
WE REACHED OUR LIMIT,
IT'S TRUE, WE REACHED OUR LIMIT,
BUT WE MADE THE GREEK ISSUE INTO
BUT WE MADE THE GREEK ISSUE
INTO AN INTERNATIONAL ISSUE.
AN INTERNATIONAL ISSUE. >>
Woodruff: JOINING US WITH
>> Woodruff: JOINING US WITH
MORE ON THE PRIME MINISTER'S
ANNOUNCEMENT IS JOURNALIST JOHN
ANNOUNCEMENT IS JOURNALIST
JOHN PSARAPOULOS.
PSARAPOULOS. SO, JOHN,
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN
SO, JOHN, WHAT DOES THIS MEAN
FOR THE NATION OF GREECE?
FOR THE NATION OF GREECE? >>
IT MEANS THAT THIS PARTY, THE
>> IT MEANS THAT THIS PARTY, THE
LEFT WING, SOON THE PARTY WILL
BE REELECTED WITH BROADENED
MAJORITY IN ABOUT A MONTH'S TIME
MAJORITY IN ABOUT A MONTH'S
TIME AND WE'LL SEE THAT AS A
AND WE'LL SEE THAT AS A
VINDICATION OF THE EFFORT IT
MADE LAST MONTH TO NEGOTIATE AN
AUSTERITY-FREE BAILOUT LOAN WITH
AUSTERITY-FREE BAILOUT LOAN
WITH ITS EUROPEAN CREDITORS,
ITS EUROPEAN CREDITORS,
SOMETHING THEY CLEARLY DID NOT
SUCCEED IN DOING AND, BECAUSE
THAT HAD BEEN A KEY ELECTION
PROMISE BACK IN JANUARY, IT SAYS
IT NOW NEEDS A RENEWED MANDATE.
THIS, THOUGH, HAS TO DO WITH TWO
THIS, THOUGH, HAS TO DO
WITH TWO OTHER THINGS.
OTHER THINGS. FIRST, IT
HAS TO CLEAR ITS OWN
FIRST, IT HAS TO
CLEAR ITS OWN HOUSE.
HOUSE. IT'S GOT TO
GET RID TO HAVE THE
IT'S GOT TO GET RID TO HAVE THE
FAR LEFT BACK BENCHES WHO ARE
NOW A VERY POWERFUL INTERNAL
OPPOSITION AND HAVE DRAWN A
OPPOSITION AND HAVE DRAWN
A THIRD OF THE MEMBERS OF
THIRD OF THE MEMBERS OF
PARLIAMENT AWAY FROM THE PRIME
PARLIAMENT AWAY FROM
THE PRIME MINISTER.
MINISTER. AND THE
SECOND THING THAT IS
AND THE SECOND THING THAT IS
GOING ON HERE IS THAT THERE IS
GOING ON HERE IS THAT THERE
IS AN OPPORTUNITY TO WIN
AN OPPORTUNITY TO WIN
SINGLE-PARTY GOVERNMENT -- IN
OTHER WORDS, TO BE ABLE TO RULE
WITHOUT A COALITION PARTNER AND
TO ACHIEVE BROADENED AUTHORITY.
>> Woodruff: SO ARE YOU SAYING
TSIPRAS THINKS HE'S STRONGER AS
TSIPRAS THINKS HE'S STRONGER
AS A RESULT OF WHAT'S HAPPENED
A RESULT OF WHAT'S
HAPPENED LATELY?
LATELY? >>
COUNTERINTUITIVELY, YES, THE
>> COUNTERINTUITIVELY, YES, THE
POLLS SEEM TO INDICATE HE WOULD
COME OUT STRONGER AS A RESULT OF
COME OUT STRONGER AS A RESULT
OF SEVEN MONTHS AT THE HELM IN
SEVEN MONTHS AT THE HELM IN
WHICH THE ECONOMY TRANSITIONED
FROM ONE WHICH HAD A POSITIVE
OUTLOOK OF 3% GROWTH THIS YEAR
TO RENEWED RECESSION FROM -- AND
ALSO AFTER A PERIOD DURING WHICH
HE ESSENTIALLY DIDN'T SUCCEED IN
HE ESSENTIALLY DIDN'T SUCCEED
IN STICKING TO HIS CAMPAIGN
STICKING TO HIS
CAMPAIGN PROMISES.
PROMISES. BUT TSIPRAS
HAS PLAYED THE
BUT TSIPRAS HAS PLAYED THE
ELECTION RULE BOOK DEVASTATINGLY
ELECTION RULE BOOK
DEVASTATINGLY WELL.
WELL. HE TRIGGERED
AN EARLY ELECTION
HE TRIGGERED AN EARLY ELECTION
BACK IN 2012 WHICH SAW HIS PARTY
GO FROM 16% OF THE POPULAR VOTE
TO 26, AND HE DID IT AGAIN IN
JANUARY THIS YEAR, WHEN HE
JANUARY THIS YEAR, WHEN
HE REFUSED TO JOIN THE
REFUSED TO JOIN THE CONSERVATIVE
-- WELL, THE PEOPLE
CONSERVATIVE -- WELL, THE PEOPLE
WHO ARE THEN THE RULING COUNTRY,
THE RULING CONSERVATIVES IN THE
BIPARTISAN CONSENSUS TO ELECT A
NEW PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC
AND THAT SAW HIM COME TO POWER
AND THAT SAW HIM
COME TO POWER 36%.
36%. SO HE'S LEFT FORWARD BY 20
SO HE'S LEFT FORWARD BY 20
PERCENTAGE POINTS THROUGH
TRIGGERING THE EARLIER
TRIGGERING THE
EARLIER ELECTIONS.
ELECTIONS. I BELIEVE
HE BELIEVES HE CAN
I BELIEVE HE BELIEVES HE CAN
ACHIEVE THIS RESULT A THIRD
ACHIEVE THIS RESULT
A THIRD TIME.
TIME. >> Woodruff:
WHAT HAPPENS TO
>> Woodruff: WHAT HAPPENS TO
THE AUSTERITY MEASURES PASSED?
THEY HAD A REFERENDUM WEEKS AGO,
THEY WERE APPROVED BY THE GREEK
PARLIAMENT, PASSED BY THE
PARLIAMENT, PASSED BY
THE EUROPEAN UNION.
EUROPEAN UNION. WHERE
DOES ALL THAT STAND?
WHERE DOES ALL THAT STAND?
>> WELL, ALL THAT HAS BEEN
BROADCAST HERE IN THE LOCAL
MEDIA, HAS BEEN RUN IN THE LOCAL
MEDIA, HAS BEEN RUN
IN THE LOCAL PRESS.
PRESS. I'VE WITH
ONE I'VE SPOKEN TO
I'VE WITH ONE I'VE SPOKEN TO
HASN'T A HAZY IDEA OF WHAT IT
HASN'T A HAZY IDEA OF WHAT
IT REALLY INVOLVES FOR THEM.
REALLY INVOLVES FOR THEM.
THEY DO KNOW THAT TSIPRAS
SUFFERED A SERIOUS DEFEAT IN
BRUSSELS WHEN TALKING TO THEIR
BRUSSELS WHEN TALKING
TO THEIR CREDITOR.
CREDITOR. THE GOVERNMENT
WAS FORCED TO
THE GOVERNMENT WAS FORCED TO
SWALLOW THE AUSTERITY ISSUE.
SWALLOW THE AUSTERITY ISSUE. I
THINK WHAT'S GOING ON IS IT
I THINK WHAT'S GOING ON IS IT
DIDN'T SUCCEED NOT BECAUSE OF
TACTICAL ERRORS BUT BECAUSE
GREECE AS A NATION ISN'T STRONG
GREECE AS A NATION ISN'T
STRONG ENOUGH TO FACE DOWN
ENOUGH TO FACE DOWN
INTERNATIONAL CREDITORS,
INSTITUTIONS AND 27 EUROPEAN
UNION PARTNERS ALL WHO HAVE
VOTING PUBLICS TO ANSWER TO.
VOTING PUBLICS TO ANSWER
TO. SO I THINK PEOPLE ARE
SO I THINK PEOPLE ARE
ESSENTIALLY WILLING TO GIVE THIS
GOVERNMENT THE BENEFIT OF THE
GOVERNMENT THE BENEFIT OF
THE DOUBT FOR ANOTHER TERM.
DOUBT FOR ANOTHER TERM. >>
Woodruff: SO QUICKLY, THE
>> Woodruff: SO QUICKLY, THE
AUSTERITY MEASURES THAT WILL BE
IMPLEMENTED WILL BE WHAT THEY
WERE SUPPOSED TO BE BEFORE OR
WEAKENED AS A RESULT OF THIS?
>> THE CONSERVATIVES, WHEN THEY
>> THE CONSERVATIVES, WHEN
THEY FELL FROM POWER, WERE
FELL FROM POWER, WERE
NEGOTIATING SOMETHING IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OF A BILLION
DOLLARS IN AUSTERITY MEASURES
THAT WOULD HAVE TAKEN EFFECT
THAT WOULD HAVE TAKEN
EFFECT THIS YEAR.
THIS YEAR. THE DEAL
THAT WE NOW HAVE IN
THE DEAL THAT WE NOW HAVE IN
JULY LOOKS -- THE SET TO IMPOSE
AUSTERITY MEASURES WORST AT
LEAST $15 BILLION OVER THREE
YEARS, ROUGHLY 2, 2.5% OF THE
YEARS, ROUGHLY 2, 2.5% OF
THE ECONOMY EACH YEAR.
ECONOMY EACH YEAR.
THEREFORE, IT IS MUCH WORSE.
BUT WHAT THE IS, YES,
BUT WHAT THE IS, YES, WE
WERE FORCED TO BOW TO THIS
WE WERE FORCED TO BOW TO
THIS BUT WE ALSO DID GET A
BUT WE ALSO DID GET A $40
BILLION INVESTMENT PROGRAM,
$40 BILLION INVESTMENT PROGRAM,
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM FROM THE
EUROPEAN COMMISSION, THAT'S
BEING FUNDED FEDERALLY, IF YOU
BEING FUNDED FEDERALLY,
IF YOU LIKE.
LIKE. WE ALSO GOT
AN UNDERSTANDING
WE ALSO GOT AN UNDERSTANDING
THAT OUR PRIMARY SURFACES, THAT
MEANS THE AMOUNT OF MONEY THAT
WILL BE EXTRACTED FROM THE GREEK
ECONOMY TO PAY CREDITORS, WILL
BE FAR LOWER THAN ORIGINALLY
FORESEEN, SAYS THE GREEK PUBLIC
FORESEEN, SAYS THE GREEK
PUBLIC HAS BEEN SPARED ABOUT
HAS BEEN SPARED ABOUT $22
BILLION WORTH OF PAYMENTS TO
$22 BILLION WORTH OF
PAYMENTS TO CREDITORS.
CREDITORS. THIRDLY, THE
PARTY SAYS WE WILL
THIRDLY, THE PARTY SAYS WE WILL
BE DISTRIBUTING THE BURDEN OF
THE PRESENT AUSTERITY MUCH MORE
FAIRLY, MUCH MORE EQUITABLY.
IT WON'T BE JUST THE POOR AND
MIDDLE CLASS, THE RICH WILL ALSO
MIDDLE CLASS, THE RICH
WILL ALSO PAY THEIR SHARE.
PAY THEIR SHARE. >>
Woodruff: JOHN PSARAPOULOS
>> Woodruff: JOHN PSARAPOULOS
IN ATHENS, WE THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: DONALD TRUMP, ANCHOR
BABIES, AND THE LATEST BIG
DEBATE ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL.
>> I WILL BUILD THE GREATEST
WALL THAT YOU'VE EVER SEEN.
WALL THAT YOU'VE EVER SEEN. >>
Ifill: DONALD TRUMP'S STRONG
>> Ifill: DONALD TRUMP'S STRONG
LANGUAGE ON IMMIGRATION HAS
VAULTED HIM TO THE TOP OF THE
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL FIELD.
IN A POLICY STATEMENT ON SUNDAY,
HE MOVED BEYOND BORDER SECURITY
CONCERNS, SAYING HE ALSO FAVORS
ENDING CONSTITUTIONALLY-MANDATED
BIRTHRIGHT CITIZENSHIP, WHICH
ALLOWS CHILDREN BORN IN THE U.S.
TO BE U.S. CITIZENS, WHETHER
THEIR PARENTS ARE OR NOT.
THE WORDING OF THE 14th
THE WORDING OF THE
14th AMENDMENT IS KEY:
AMENDMENT IS KEY: "ALL
PERSONS BORN OR NATURALIZED
"ALL PERSONS BORN OR NATURALIZED
IN THE UNITED STATES, AND
SUBJECT TO THE JURISDICTION
THEREOF, ARE CITIZENS OF THE
UNITED STATES AND OF THE STATE
UNITED STATES AND OF THE
STATE WHEREIN THEY RESIDE."
WHEREIN THEY RESIDE." THAT
INCLUDES CHILDREN WHOSE
THAT INCLUDES CHILDREN WHOSE
WE'RE GOING TO FIND O.ALLY.COVED
>> Ifill: OTHER REPUBLICAN
>> YOU WANT TO GET TO THE
POLICY FOR A SECOND?
FOR A SECOND? I THINK
THAT PEOPLE BORN IN THIS
I THINK THAT PEOPLE BORN IN THIS
COUNTRY OUGHT TO BE AMERICAN
COUNTRY OUGHT TO BE
AMERICAN CITIZENS.
CITIZENS. BUT HE
STOPPED SHORT OF
BUT HE STOPPED SHORT OF
DEMANDING OUTRIGHT REPEAL.
JOINING US NOW TO PROVIDE A
LITTLE LEGAL AND POLIITICAL
BACKGROUND ARE SUZANNA SHERRY,
PROFESSOR OF LAW AT VANDERBILT
UNIVERSITY, AND ALAN GOMEZ, WHO
COVERS IMMIGRATION FOR "USA
COVERS IMMIGRATION
FOR "USA TODAY."
TODAY." PROFESSOR
SHERRY, I WANT TO ASK
PROFESSOR SHERRY, I WANT TO ASK
YOU THIS AND ALAN AS WELL, IS
THIS A CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT
THIS A CONSTITUTIONAL
ARGUMENT OR A POLITICAL ONE?
OR A POLITICAL ONE? I THINK
IT'S A CONSTITUTIONAL
I THINK IT'S A CONSTITUTIONAL
ARGUMENT BECAUSE THE 14th
AMENDMENT GUARANTEES BIRTHRIGHT
CITIZENSHIP AND, SO, IT HAS TO
BE AMENDED IF ANYBODY WANTS TO
BE AMENDED IF ANYBODY
WANTS TO CHANGE THAT.
CHANGE THAT. >>
Ifill: ALAN GOMEZ, A
>> Ifill: ALAN GOMEZ,
A POLITICAL ARGUMENT?
POLITICAL ARGUMENT? >> OF
COURSE, THERE IS PART OF
>> OF COURSE, THERE IS
PART OF THAT AS WELL.
THAT AS WELL. THERE ARE
SOME IN CONGRESS WHO
THERE ARE SOME IN CONGRESS WHO
FEEL THEY DON'T NEED AN ENTIRE
NEW AMENDMENT TO REPEAL THIS,
THEY JUST NEED TO REWORK THE
LAW, INTERPRET IT A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENTLY, BUT, OBVIOUSLY, AS
WE'RE SEEING ON THE CAMPAIGN
TRAIL, THERE IS A HEAVY
POLITICAL COMPONENT TO THIS.
>> Ifill: PROFESSOR SHERRY,
GIVE US A HISTORY LESSON, THE
GIVE US A HISTORY LESSON,
THE GENESIS OF THIS DEBATE.
GENESIS OF THIS DEBATE.
>> THE 14th AMENDMENT WAS
PASSED IN 1868, AND THE PRIMARY
PURPOSE OF THE SENTENCE WAS TO
REVERSE THE 1857 CASE OF DRED
SCOTT WHICH HELD BLACKS COULD
SCOTT WHICH HELD BLACKS
COULD NOT BE CITIZENS.
NOT BE CITIZENS. SO THIS
MADE EVERYBODY WHO WAS
SO THIS MADE EVERYBODY WHO WAS
BORN HERE, BLACK OR WHITE, A
CITIZEN OF THE UNITED STATES.
AND IT WAS A ASSUMED, ACTUALLY
FROM MUCH EARLIER FROM THAT,
FROM THE FIRST FOUNDING IN THE
1780s, IT WAS ASSUMED THAT
CITIZENSHIP WENT WITH BIRTH.
NO ONE CHALLENGED IT TILL 1850
WHEN A NEW YORK STATE COURT
FOUND SOMEONE WHO WAS BORN HERE
WAS A CITIZEN AND IN 1898 THE
U.S. SUPREME COURT WEIGHED IN
AND HELD A CHINESE MAN WHO HAD
BEEN BORN IN SAN FRANCISCO OF
CHINESE CITIZENS AND THEN HAD
LEFT, HE COULD COME BACK,
DESPITE THE CURRENT LAW THAT
EXCLUDED CHINESE IMMIGRANTS, HE
COULD COME BACK BECAUSE BEING
BORN HERE HE WAS A CITIZEN.
BORN HERE HE WAS A CITIZEN. THE
COURT SAID THAT BIRTH HERE
THE COURT SAID THAT BIRTH HERE
IS A COMPLETE AND SUFFICIENT
QUALIFICATION OF CITIZENSHIP.
>> Ifill: TO BE CLEAR, ALAN
GOMEZ, THIS IS NOT A DEBATE OR
GOMEZ, THIS IS NOT A DEBATE
OR QUESTION THAT DONALD TRUMP
QUESTION THAT DONALD
TRUMP STARTED?
STARTED? >> ABSOLUTELY NOT.
>> ABSOLUTELY NOT. THIS
IS SOMETHING THAT VARIOUS
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT VARIOUS
REPS HAVE BEEN TRYING TO PUSH
REPS HAVE BEEN TRYING TO
PUSH FOR QUITE SOME TIME.
FOR QUITE SOME TIME. THIS
ARGUMENT GOES BACK WELL
THIS ARGUMENT GOES BACK WELL
OVER A DECADE, TRYING TO CHANGE
OVER A DECADE, TRYING
TO CHANGE THIS.
THIS. THEY'VE WANTED
TO RESORT TO THE
THEY'VE WANTED TO RESORT TO THE
COURTS, BUT HAVEN'T FIGURED OUT
COURTS, BUT HAVEN'T FIGURED
OUT HOW TO GET STANDINGS TO
HOW TO GET STANDINGS TO
CHALLENGE THE RULINGS.
CHALLENGE THE RULINGS. SO IN
CONGRESS, WE SEE REPEATED
SO IN CONGRESS, WE SEE REPEATED
EFFORTS AS START GRAHAM, FOR
EXAMPLE, IS ONE WHO CO-SPONSORED
ONE OF THESE TO TRY TO CHANGE
THE SPHWERPTATION TO HAVE THE
THE SPHWERPTATION TO HAVE
THE 14th AMENDMENT TO DENY
14th AMENDMENT TO DENY
CITIZENSHIP TO THE CHILDREN OF
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS, THE
ARGUMENT BEING THAT, AS WE SAW
IN THE WORDING OF THE LANG
PACKAGE BADGE -- IN THE WORDING
PACKAGE BADGE -- IN THE
WORDING OF THE LANGUAGE, THAT
OF THE LANGUAGE, THAT
UNDOCUMENTED CHILDREN DON'T
QUALIFY FOR THE BENEFIT.
QUALIFY FOR THE BENEFIT. >>
Ifill: ALAN, WHAT DOES IT
>> Ifill: ALAN, WHAT DOES IT
TAKE FOR CONGRESS TO REPEAL OR
OTHERWISE TO VOID CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENTS LIKE THIS?
>> TO REPEAL THE ACTUAL
AMENDMENT, THAT OBVIOUSLY IS AN
AMENDMENT, THAT OBVIOUSLY IS
AN INCREDIBLY HIGH HURDLE.
INCREDIBLY HIGH HURDLE.
SO THAT GETS INTO A
THREE-QUARTER MAJORITY.
THREE-QUARTER MAJORITY. BUT
JUST TO PASS A LAW TO SAY
BUT JUST TO PASS A LAW TO SAY
THERE IS A NEW INTERPRETATION OF
THERE IS A NEW INTERPRETATION
OF IT, THAT'S ANOTHER THING,
IT, THAT'S ANOTHER
THING, OBVIOUSLY.
OBVIOUSLY. THIS PRESIDENT
WOULD VETO IT,
THIS PRESIDENT WOULD VETO IT,
BUT WHO KNOWS WHAT THE NEXT
PRESIDENT MIGHT THINK.
PRESIDENT MIGHT THINK. THAT'S
WHERE WE GET INTO SORT OF
THAT'S WHERE WE GET INTO SORT OF
THE POLITICAL ASPECT OF IT AND
THAT'S WHY WE'RE SEEING IT
BECOME SUCH A BIG ISSUE ON THE
BECOME SUCH A BIG ISSUE ON
THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL NOW.
CAMPAIGN TRAIL NOW. >>
Ifill: PROFESSOR SHERRY,
>> Ifill: PROFESSOR SHERRY,
WHEN'S THE LAST TIME CONGRESS OR
ANYBODY WAS ABLE TO TAKE A RIGHT
AWAY THAT IS PROTECTED IN THE
AWAY THAT IS PROTECTED
IN THE CONSTITUTION?
CONSTITUTION? HAS IT
EVER HAPPENED BEFORE?
HAS IT EVER HAPPENED BEFORE? >>
IT'S ONLY HAPPENED ONCE, THAT
>> IT'S ONLY HAPPENED ONCE, THAT
IS THE CONSTITUTION HAS BEEN
AMENDED ONLY ONCE TO CONTRACT
RIGHTS RATHER THAN EXPAND THEM.
IT'S BEEN AMENDED A LOT OF TIMES
TO EXPAND THEM AND THE ONE AND
ONLY TIME THAT AN AMENDMENT
CONTRACTED RIGHTS WAS THE 18t
18th AMENDMENT WHICH WAS
PROHIBITION, AND WE ALL KNOW
THAT THAT ONE WAS REPEALED
SEVERAL DECADES LATER.
SEVERAL DECADES LATER. >>
Ifill: ALAN, WE KNOW, OF
>> Ifill: ALAN, WE KNOW, OF
COURSE, NOT ALL THE REPUBLICAN
CANDIDATES ARE IN FAVOR OF
REVOKING BIRTHRIGHT CITIZENSHIP.
IN FACT, WE HEARD JEB BUSH TALK
ABOUT IT AND SAY HE DIDN'T
NECESSARILY THINK IT WAS A GREAT
NECESSARILY THINK IT
WAS A GREAT IDEA.
IDEA. BUT HE ALSO USED THE TERM
BUT HE ALSO USED THE
TERM "ANCHOR BABIES."
"ANCHOR BABIES." TELL
ME ABOUT THE POLITICAL
TELL ME ABOUT THE POLITICAL
GENESIS OF THE TERM AND WHY IT
GENESIS OF THE TERM AND WHY
IT STIRS UP SUCH DUST.
STIRS UP SUCH DUST. >> IT'S
PERCEIVED AS SUCH A SLUR
>> IT'S PERCEIVED AS SUCH A
SLUR TO A LOT OVERUNDOCUMENTED
TO A LOT OVERUNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS, A LOT OF HI HISPANI,
A LOT OF IMMIGRANTS IN THE FIRST
AND SECOND WAVE OF IMMIGRATION.
THIS GOES BACK FOR QUITE SOME
THIS GOES BACK FOR
QUITE SOME TIME.
TIME. I REMEMBER STEVE
KING FROM IOWA,
I REMEMBER STEVE KING FROM IOWA,
ONE OF THE BIGGEST IMMIGRATION
HARDLINERS WE'VE SEEN IN A LONG
TIME AND MUCH LIKE TRUMP AND A
BIT BOMB BASSIC IN THE WAY HE
APPROACHES THINGS AND USED THAT
APPROACHES THINGS AND
USED THAT YEARS AGO.
YEARS AGO. IT SPEAKS
TO THIS IDEA.
IT SPEAKS TO THIS IDEA. THEY
HAD JEB BUSH TALKING ABOUT
THEY HAD JEB BUSH TALKING ABOUT
NEEDING TO IMPROVE THE TONE WITH
THE HISPANIC COMMUNITY IN THIS
COUNTRY, CALLING ON HIS OTHER
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES TO IMPROVE
THE ATTORNEYS YET NOT BACKING
AWAY FROM USING "ANCHOR BABIES."
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
UNDERSTAND THAT BUSH, WHILE
SAYING HE DID NOT BELIEVE WE
NEEDED TO CHANGE BIRTHRIGHT
CITIZENSHIP, HE WANTS TO ENFORCE
IT TO PREVENT PREGNANT MOTHERS
FROM COMING INTO THE COUNTRY
SPECIFICALLY FOR THE PURPOSE OF
SPECIFICALLY FOR THE
PURPOSE OF GIVING BIRTH.
GIVING BIRTH. MARCO
RUBIO, FLORIDA SENATOR,
MARCO RUBIO, FLORIDA SENATOR,
ALSO ENDORSED THAT APPROACH.
SO EVEN THOUGH EVENED'S NOT ON
SO EVEN THOUGH EVENED'S NOT
ON BOARD WITH BIRTHRIGHT
BOARD WITH BIRTHRIGHT
CITIZENSHIP, A LOT OF FOLKS ARE
TRYING TO GET AT IT IN DIFFERENT
TRYING TO GET AT IT
IN DIFFERENT WAYS.
WAYS. >> Ifill:
PROFESSOR SHERRY, IS
>> Ifill: PROFESSOR SHERRY, IS
IT UNIQUELY AMERICAN THAT IF
YOU'RE BORN HERE YOU'RE A
YOU'RE BORN HERE
YOU'RE A CITIZEN?
CITIZEN? >> IT'S ALMOST UNIQUELY
>> IT'S ALMOST
UNIQUELY AMERICAN.
AMERICAN. THE ONLY
OTHER COUNTRY IS
THE ONLY OTHER
COUNTRY IS CANADA.
CANADA. A NUMBER OF
SOUTHERN COUNTRIES
A NUMBER OF SOUTHERN
COUNTRIES HAVE IT AS WELL.
HAVE IT AS WELL. NO PLACE
IN WESTERN EUROPE, NO
NO PLACE IN WESTERN EUROPE, NO
PLACE IN ASIA, NOT AUSTRALIA.
PLACE IN ASIA, NOT AUSTRALIA. A
NUMBER OF EUROPEAN COUNTRIES
A NUMBER OF EUROPEAN COUNTRIES
AS WELL AS AUSTRALIA AND
NEW ZEALAND HAD BIRTHRIGHT
CITIZENSHIP AND THEY REPEALED IT
OVER THE LAST 20 OR 30 YEARS.
>> Ifill: ON THIS IDEA OF
ANCHOR BABIES, IS THERE ANY
EVIDENCE TO SUPPORT THE NOTION
THIS IS A WIDESPREAD IDEA THAT
WOMEN COME HERE TO HAVE BABIES
AND GAIN CITIZENSHIP FOR THEM?
ARE THERE NUMBERS TO BACK THAT
ARE THERE NUMBERS
TO BACK THAT UP?
UP? >> IT'S HARD TO QUANTIFY
>> IT'S HARD TO QUANTIFY
INTENTIONS, BUT I CAN TELL YOU
IN THE REPORTING I AND MY
COLLEAGUES HAVE DONE IS THERE IS
AN INDUSTRY OF PEOPLE WHO COME
HERE OR SENDING PEOPLE TO THIS
HERE OR SENDING PEOPLE TO
THIS COUNTRY TO GE BIRTH.
COUNTRY TO GE BIRTH. TRAVEL
AGENCIES ADVERTISE YOU
TRAVEL AGENCIES ADVERTISE YOU
CAN COME OVER HERE, THEY TEACH
YOU AND COACH YOU ON HOW TO
SPEAK TO THE CUSTOMS AND BORDER
AGENTS AS YOU'RE COMING IN SO
YOU CAN GET IN, HAVE YOUR BABY,
GET THE CITIZENSHIP AND HEAD
GET THE CITIZENSHIP
AND HEAD BACK.
BACK. THERE ARE UNDOCUMENTED
THERE ARE UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS FROM CENTRAL AND
SOUTH AMERICA WHO HAVE DONE
THINGS WHEN THEY CROSS OVER.
BUT IN TERMS OF NUMBERS, THE
LAST TIME I SAW ANYBODY LOOK AT
THAT WAS THE PEW RESEARCH CENTER
A FEW YEARS AGO AND FOUND WELL
OVER 90% OF THE UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS WHO GAVE BIRTH IN THE
UNITED STATES HAD ARRIVED IN THE
UNITED STATES AT LEAST TWO YEARS
PRIOR, SO, IN OTHER WORDS, THEY
HAD COME HERE AND WERE NOT
PREGNANT WHILE DOING SO.
>> Ifill: AN, ONE MORE
QUESTION FOR YOU.
QUESTION FOR YOU. HOW
DOES THIS WORK FOR THE
HOW DOES THIS WORK
FOR THE DEMOCRATS?
DEMOCRATS? >> FOR THE DEMOCRATS?
>> FOR THE DEMOCRATS? THEY'RE
PRETTY MUCH SITTING BACK
THEY'RE PRETTY MUCH SITTING
BACK AND SMILING AT THIS POINT.
AND SMILING AT THIS POINT.
IF THE PURPOSE OF WHAT THE
REPUBLICANS ARE TRYING TO DO IS
REPUBLICANS ARE TRYING TO
DO IS TO WIN THE REPUBLICAN
TO WIN THE REPUBLICAN
NOMINATION, THERE IS A LOT OF
SUPPORT AMONG REPUBLICAN VOTERS
FOR A LOT OF THESE IDEAS WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT, INCLUDING
CHANGING BIRTHRIGHT CITIZENSHIP,
BUT WHEN YOU TRANSITION OVER THE
TO THE GENERAL ELECTION, MITT
ROMNEY DIDN'T GO THIS FAR AND HE
ROMNEY DIDN'T GO THIS FAR AND
HE ONLY GARNERED 27% OF THE
ONLY GARNERED 27% OF THE
HISPANIC VOTE, SO IF THEY HAVE
ANY HOPES OF TRYING TO WIN OVER
AT LEAST 27% IF NOT MORE TO HAVE
THE HISPANIC VOTE WHICH IS THE
FASTEST GROWING DEMOGRAPHIC IN
THIS COUNTRY, THESE THINGS ARE
THIS COUNTRY, THESE THINGS
ARE VERY DANGEROUS.
VERY DANGEROUS. >>
Ifill: NO DISCUSSIONS OF
>> Ifill: NO DISCUSSIONS OF
SELF-DEPORTATION THIS WEEK.
ALAN GOMEZ, SUZANNA SHERRY,
THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: STAY WITH US,
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR:
DEBATING EFFECTIVE TREATMENT FOR
EARLY STAGES OF BREAST CANCER.
WHY ONE RETAIL STORE WANTS TO
DECREASE CONSUMERISM, EVEN AT
DECREASE CONSUMERISM,
EVEN AT ITS OWN STORES.
ITS OWN STORES. AND, A
BRIEF BUT SPECTACULAR
AND, A BRIEF BUT SPECTACULAR
TAKE ON SELF-SUFFICIENCY AND
TAKE ON SELF-SUFFICIENCY
AND SPACE EXPLORATION.
SPACE EXPLORATION. BUT
FIRST, WE TURN TO FORMER
BUT FIRST, WE TURN TO FORMER
PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER'S CANCER
PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER'S
CANCER DIAGNOSIS.
DIAGNOSIS. THE 90-YEAR-OLD
REVEALED TODAY
THE 90-YEAR-OLD REVEALED TODAY
HE HAS SPOTS OF MELANOMA ON HIS
HE HAS SPOTS OF
MELANOMA ON HIS BRAIN.
BRAIN. HE TALKED ABOUT
LIFE, FAITH AND
HE TALKED ABOUT LIFE, FAITH AND
THE COURSE OF THE DISEASE WITH
REPORTERS AT THE CARTER CENTER
TODAY, JUST BEFORE BEGINNING
RADTIONIA TREATMENT AT ATLANTA'S
EMORY HOSPITAL THIS AFTERNOON.
>> IN MAY, I WENT DOWN TO GUYANA
TO HELP MONITOR AN ELECTION, AND
TO HELP MONITOR AN ELECTION,
AND I HAD A VERY BAD COLD.
I HAD A VERY BAD COLD. AND
I LEFT DOWN THERE AND CAME
AND I LEFT DOWN THERE AND CAME
BACK TO EMORY SO THEY COULD
BACK TO EMORY SO THEY
COULD CHECK ME OVER.
CHECK ME OVER. AND IN
THE PROCESS, THEY DID A
AND IN THE PROCESS, THEY DID A
COMPLETE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION.
AND THE M.R.I. SHOWED THAT THERE
AND THE M.R.I. SHOWED THAT
THERE WAS A CANCER, OR GROWTH.
WAS A CANCER, OR GROWTH.
A TUMOR ON MY LIVER.
A TUMOR ON MY LIVER. THEY
DID A BIOPSY AND FOUND THAT
THEY DID A BIOPSY AND FOUND THAT
IT WAS, INDEED, CANCER AND IT
IT WAS, INDEED, CANCER
AND IT WAS MELANOMA.
WAS MELANOMA. AND
THEY HAD A VERY HIGH
AND THEY HAD A VERY HIGH
SUSPICION THEN AND NOW THAT THE
MELANOMA STARTED SOMEWHERE ELSE
ON MY BODY AND SPREAD TO THE
ON MY BODY AND
SPREAD TO THE LIVER.
LIVER. AT FIRST, I
FELT THAT IT WAS
AT FIRST, I FELT THAT IT WAS
CONFINED TO MY LIVER, AND THAT
THE OPERATION HAD COMPLETELY
REMOVED IT, SO I WAS QUITE
REMOVED IT, SO I WAS
QUITE RELIEVED.
RELIEVED. AND THEN THAT
SAME AFTERNOON, WE
AND THEN THAT SAME AFTERNOON,
WE HAD AN M.R.I. OF MY HEAD AND
HAD AN M.R.I. OF MY HEAD AND
NECK AND IT SHOWED UP THAT IT
WAS ALREADY IN FOUR PLACES IN MY
WAS ALREADY IN FOUR
PLACES IN MY BRAIN.
BRAIN. SO I WOULD
SAY THAT NIGHT AND
SO I WOULD SAY THAT NIGHT AND
THE NEXT DAY UNTIL I CAME BACK
UP TO EMORY, I JUST THOUGHT I
UP TO EMORY, I JUST THOUGHT
I HAD A FEW WEEKS LEFT.
HAD A FEW WEEKS LEFT. BUT
I WAS, SURPRISINGLY, AT
BUT I WAS,
SURPRISINGLY, AT EASE.
EASE. NOW I FEEL,
YOU KNOW, IT'S IN
NOW I FEEL, YOU KNOW, IT'S
IN THE HANDS OF GOD, WHOM I
THE HANDS OF GOD,
WHOM I WORSHIP.
WORSHIP. AND I'LL
BE PREPARED FOR
AND I'LL BE PREPARED FOR
ANYTHING THAT COMES.
ANYTHING THAT
COMES. I FEEL GOOD.
I FEEL GOOD. I HAVEN'T
FELT ANY WEAKNESS OR
I HAVEN'T FELT ANY
WEAKNESS OR DEBILITY.
DEBILITY. THE PAIN HAS
BEEN VERY SLIGHT.
THE PAIN HAS BEEN VERY SLIGHT.
BOTH OF THE FORMER PRESIDENT
BUSH HAD CALLED ME AT ONE TIME,
AND THEN GEORGE H.W. BUSH, BUSH
AND THEN GEORGE H.W. BUSH,
BUSH SR., CALLED ME YESTERDAY
SR., CALLED ME YESTERDAY
AFTERNOON AGAIN.
AFTERNOON AGAIN. I THINK
I APPRECIATED THAT VERY
I THINK I APPRECIATED THAT VERY
MUCH, AND THEIR WIVES WERE THERE
ON THE TELEPHONE WITH THEM.
PRESIDENT OBAMA CALLED, THE VICE
PRESIDENT CALLED, BILL CLINTON
CALLED, HILLARY CLINTON, THE
SECRETARY OF STATE CALLED; THE
FIRST TIME THEY'VE CALLED ME IN
FIRST TIME THEY'VE CALLED
ME IN A LONG TIME.
A LONG TIME. (LAUGHTER)
(LAUGHTER) ROSE AND
I HAVE PLANNED ON
ROSE AND I HAVE PLANNED ON
DRAMATICALLY REDUCING OUR WORK
AT CARTER CENTER BUT WE HAVE NOT
AT CARTER CENTER BUT WE
HAVE NOT DONE IT YET.
DONE IT YET. WE TALKED
ABOUT THIS WHEN I WAS
WE TALKED ABOUT THIS WHEN
I WAS 80, WHEN I WAS 85.
80, WHEN I WAS 85. WE
TALKED ABOUT IT AGAIN I WAS
WE TALKED ABOUT IT
AGAIN I WAS 90.
90. THIS IS A PROPITIOUS TIME TO
THIS IS A PROPITIOUS TIME TO
CARRY OUT OUR LONG-DELAYED
PLANS, SO I'M GONNA CUT BACK
FAIRLY DRAMATICALLY ON MY
OBLIGATIONS AT EMORY, AT THE
OBLIGATIONS AT EMORY, AT THE I
THINK I HAVE BEEN AS BLESSED
I THINK I HAVE BEEN AS BLESSED
AS ANY HUMAN BEING IN THE WORLD.
BECOMING PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA, AND GOVERNOR
OF GEORGIA, AND WORKED AT THE
CARTER CENTER, AND BIG AND
GROWING FAMILY, AND THOUSANDS OF
GROWING FAMILY, AND
THOUSANDS OF FRIENDS.
FRIENDS. SO I DON'T
THINK-- AND LIVING TO
SO I DON'T THINK-- AND LIVING TO
BE 91 YEARS OLD, 1st OF OCTOBER.
SO, I'VE HAD... EVERYTHING HAS
SO, I'VE HAD... EVERYTHING
HAS BEEN A BLESSING FOR ME.
BEEN A BLESSING FOR ME. >>
AND ANYTHING YOU WISH--I'M
>> AND ANYTHING YOU WISH--I'M
SORRY-- THAT YOU HAD NOT DONE,
SORRY-- THAT YOU HAD NOT
DONE, OR THAT YOU HAD DONE
OR THAT YOU HAD
DONE DIFFERENTLY?
DIFFERENTLY? >> I WISH
I HAD SENT ONE MORE
>> I WISH I HAD SENT ONE MORE
HELICOPTER TO GET THE HOSTAGES.
AND WE WOULD HAVE RESCUED THEM,
AND I WOULD HAVE BEEN REELECTED.
BUT THAT MAY HAVE INTERFERED
WITH THE FOUNDATION OF THE
WITH THE FOUNDATION
OF THE CARTER CENTER.
CARTER CENTER. IF I HAD
TO CHOOSE BETWEEN FOUR
IF I HAD TO CHOOSE BETWEEN
FOUR MORE YEARS AND THE CARTER
MORE YEARS AND THE CARTER
CENTER, I THINK I WOULD CHOOSE
CENTER, I THINK I WOULD
CHOOSE THE CARTER CENTER.
THE CARTER CENTER. >> IN
THE TIME THAT YOU HAVE
>> IN THE TIME THAT YOU HAVE
LEFT, WHAT WOULD GIVE YOU THE
MOST SATISFACTION TO SEE
MOST SATISFACTION TO
SEE SOMETHING HAPPEN?
SOMETHING HAPPEN? >>
WELL, IN INTERNATIONAL
>> WELL, IN INTERNATIONAL
AFFAIRS, I WOULD SAY PEACE FOR
ISRAEL AND ITS NEIGHBORS.
THAT'S BEEN A TOP PRIORITY FOR
MY FOREIGN POLICY PROJECT FOR
MY FOREIGN POLICY PROJECT
FOR THE LAST 30 YEARS.
THE LAST 30 YEARS. RIGHT
NOW, I THINK THE PROSPECTS
RIGHT NOW, I THINK THE PROSPECTS
ARE MORE DISMAL THAN ANY TIME I
REMEMBER IN THE LAST 50 YEARS.
THE ONLY PROCESS IS PRACTICALLY
THE ONLY PROCESS IS
PRACTICALLY DORMANT.
DORMANT. AS FAR AS
THE CARTER CENTER'S
AS FAR AS THE CARTER CENTER'S
CONCERNED, I WOULD LIKE TO SEE
CONCERNED, I WOULD LIKE TO
SEE GUINEA WORM COMPLETELY
GUINEA WORM COMPLETELY
ERADICATED BEFORE I DIE.
ERADICATED BEFORE I DIE. I'D
LIKE FOR THE LAST GUINEA
I'D LIKE FOR THE LAST GUINEA
WORM TO DIE BEFORE I DO.
WORM TO DIE BEFORE I DO. >>
Woodruff: YOU CAN WATCH MY
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN WATCH MY
CONVERSATION WITH PRESIDENT
CARTER FROM LAST MONTH, BEFORE
HIS DIAGNOSIS, WHERE WE
DISCUSSED HIS LATEST BOOK, "A
DISCUSSED HIS LATEST
BOOK, "A FULL LIFE."
FULL LIFE." THAT'S
AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Woodruff: THERE WAS OTHER BIG
NEWS TODAY RELATED TO CANCER:
NEWS TODAY RELATED TO CANCER: A
STUDY PUBLISHED IN THE JOURNAL
A STUDY PUBLISHED IN THE JOURNAL
OF THE AMERICAN MEDICAL
ASSOCIATION'S "ONCOLOGY" FOUND
THAT WOMEN GIVEN LUMPECTOMIES
AND MASTECTOMIES AS TREATMENT
FOR VERY EARLY STAGE BREAST
CANCER HAD SIMILAR SURVIVAL
RATES TO THOSE PATIENTS WHO HAD
LESS RADICAL CANCER TREATMENTS.
THOSE FINDINGS MAY CALL INTO
QUESTION SOME OF THE STANDARD
ASSUMPTIONS ON HOW TO TREAT THE
ASSUMPTIONS ON HOW TO
TREAT THE DISEASE.
DISEASE. FOR A CLOSER
LOOK AT THE STUDY
FOR A CLOSER LOOK AT THE STUDY
AND ITS POTENTIAL IMPLICATIONS.
WE TURN TO TWO CANCER
SPECIALISTS: DR. STEVEN NAROD IS
SPECIALISTS: DR. STEVEN NAROD
IS A RESEARCHER AT THE WOMEN'S
A RESEARCHER AT THE WOMEN'S
COLLEGE RESEARCH INSTITUTE IN
COLLEGE RESEARCH
INSTITUTE IN TORONTO.
TORONTO. HE WAS THE
STUDY'S LEAD AUTHOR.
HE WAS THE STUDY'S LEAD AUTHOR.
AND, DR. MONICA MORROW IS CHIEF
BREAST CANCER SURGEON AT
MEMORIAL SLOAN KETTERING CANCER
CENTER, IN NEW YORK CITY.
CENTER, IN NEW YORK CITY. DR.
MORROW, DR. NAROD, WELCOME
DR. MORROW, DR. NAROD,
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
TO YOU BOTH. I'LL START
WITH YOU, DR. NAROD.
I'LL START WITH YOU, DR. NAROD.
ON THIS STUDY, WE DID READ IT'S
THE MOST EXTENSIVE COLLECTION OF
THE MOST EXTENSIVE COLLECTION
OF DATA EVER ANALYZED ON THIS
DATA EVER ANALYZED ON THIS
PARTICULAR TYPE OF CANCER.
BOIL DOWN THE FINDINGS FOR US.
>> WE FOCUSED ON 100,000 WOMEN
WHO AT THE EARLIEST FORM OF
CANCER, SOME SAY A PRECURSOR
CANCER, SOME SAY A
PRECURSOR LESION.
LESION. SINCE IT'S A VERY GOOD
SINCE IT'S A VERY GOOD
PROGNOSIS, WE FOLLOWED 100,000
WOMEN FOR UP TO 20 YEARS AND
FOUND THAT, AT 20 YEARS, ABOUT
3% OF THEM HAD DIED OF BREAST
3% OF THEM HAD DIED
OF BREAST CANCER.
CANCER. ROUGHLY A
THIRD OF THE PATIENTS
ROUGHLY A THIRD OF THE PATIENTS
WE TREATED WITH LUMPECTOMY ALONE
WHICH IS REMOVING THE FOCUS OF
WHICH IS REMOVING THE
FOCUS OF CANCER.
CANCER. ONE-THIRD
OF THE PATIENTS,
ONE-THIRD OF THE PATIENTS,
PROBABLY, HAD A LUMPECTOMY PLUS
RADIOTHERAPY AND ONE-THIRD OF
THE PATIENTS HAD THE ENTIRE
BREAST REMOVED THROUGH
BREAST REMOVED
THROUGH MASTECTOMY.
MASTECTOMY. WE FOUND
NO DIFFERENCE IN
WE FOUND NO DIFFERENCE IN
SURVIVAL IN 20 YEARS BETWEEN
WOMEN TREATED ANY OF THE THREE
WOMEN TREATED ANY
OF THE THREE WAYS.
WAYS. >> Woodruff: YOU SAID
>> Woodruff: YOU SAID ONE-THIRD,
ONE-THIRD, ONE-THIRD.
ONE-THIRD, ONE-THIRD, ONE-THIRD.
WHAT DO THESE FINDINGS TELL YOU
THAT THE TREATMENT SHOULD BE?
>> WELL, IT TELLS US SOMETHING
ABOUT THE EARLY STAGES OF BREAST
ABOUT THE EARLY STAGES
OF BREAST CANCER.
CANCER. THE REASON I SAY THAT IS
THE REASON I SAY THAT IS
BECAUSE, OF THOSE 3% OF THE
WOMEN WHO DIED OF BREAST CANCER,
MOST OF THEM, 54% OF THEM,
BETWEEN THE TIME THEY HAD THE
INITIAL LESION AND A DISTANT
RECURRENCE OR METASTATIC DISEASE
NEVER EXPERIENCED RECURRENCE OF
NEVER EXPERIENCED RECURRENCE
OF CANCER IN THE BREAST.
CANCER IN THE BREAST. THAT
LEADS ME TO BELIEVE, WHEN
THAT LEADS ME TO BELIEVE, WHEN
THE CANCER WAS REMOVED FROM THE
SURGEON, IT ALREADY SPREAD
AROUND THE BREAST AND TOOK UP TO
AROUND THE BREAST AND TOOK UP
TO 20 YEARS FOR THE CELLS TO
20 YEARS FOR THE CELLS TO
FLOURISH AND ULTIMATELY CAUSE
THE BREAST CANCER DEATH.
>> Woodruff: TO QUICKLY
INTERPRET WHAT YOU'RE SAYING AND
TO TURN TO DR. MORROW, SONS
SOUNDS LIKE WHAT WE'RE HEARING
AND THE ARTICLE SAYS,
AND THE ARTICLE SAYS, DR.
MORROW, IS THE FINDINGS
DR. MORROW, IS THE FINDINGS
WOULD SUGGEST MINIMAL TREATMENT
WOULD BE JUST AS EFFECTIVE AS
WOULD BE JUST AS EFFECTIVE
AS THE MAXIMAL TREATMENT.
THE MAXIMAL TREATMENT.
WHAT'S YOUR INTERPRETATION?
WHAT'S YOUR INTERPRETATION? >>
I'M NOT NECESSARILY SURE THE
>> I'M NOT NECESSARILY SURE
THE ARTICLE SAYS THAT.
ARTICLE SAYS THAT. I THINK
A CRITICAL FINDING OF
I THINK A CRITICAL FINDING OF
THIS STUDY IS HOW GOOD THE
PROGNOSIS FOR D.C.I.S. IS, AND
WOMEN SHOULD BE REASSURED
BECAUSE WE KNOW WOMEN WITH
D.C.I.S. ESTIMATE THEIR RISK OF
DYING OF BREAST CANCER TO BE AS
HIGH AS 30% AND THIS STUDY SAYS
THAT'S JUST SIMPLY NOT TRUE.
THAT'S JUST SIMPLY NOT TRUE. I
THINK WHAT IT DOES TELL US IS,
I THINK WHAT IT DOES TELL US IS,
TO DATE, PHYSICIANS HAVE BEEN
PRETTY GOOD AT SELECTING LOW
RISK D.C.I.S. WHICH CAN BE
RISK D.C.I.S. WHICH CAN
BE TREATED MINIMALLY WITH
TREATED MINIMALLY WITH
LUMPECTOMY ALONE.
LUMPECTOMY ALONE. I THINK
IT SAYS WE SHOULD THINK
I THINK IT SAYS WE SHOULD THINK
HARD ABOUT EXPANDING THE
INDICATIONS FOR MINIMAL
TREATMENT, BUT I THINK IT'S ALSO
IMPORTANT FOR WOMEN TO BE AWARE
THAT WE CAN ONLY SAY THERE IS
NOTHING THERE BUT D.C.I.S. AFTER
WE'VE REMOVED THE ENTIRE AREA.
30% OF WOMEN WHO -- OR 20% OF
WOMEN WHO ARE DIAGNOSED AS
HAVING D.C.I.S. ON A NEEDLE
BIOPSY WILL ACTUALLY BE FOUND TO
HAVE INVASIVE CANCER WHEN YOU
HAVE INVASIVE CANCER WHEN
YOU REMOVE THE ENTIRE AREA.
REMOVE THE ENTIRE AREA. SO
THE IDEA THAT YOU CAN DO
SO THE IDEA THAT YOU CAN DO
NOTHING AT ALL FOR D.C.I.S. AND
END UP WITH THE SAME EXTREMELY
FAVORABLE OUTCOMES THAT
FAVORABLE OUTCOMES THAT DR.
NAROD REPORTS REMAINS TO BE
DR. NAROD REPORTS REMAINS TO BE
PROVEN AND SHOULD BE THE SUBJECT
OF FUTURE RESEARCH, PERHAPS.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO CLARIFY
AGAIN FOR THE AUDIENCE WATCHING,
WE'RE THROWING AROUND THE TERM
D.C.I.S. WHICH, AGAIN, STANDS
FOR THE LEAST ADVANCED STAGE OF
CANCER ALSO KNOWN AS STAGE ZERO.
SO DR. NAROD, YOU HEARD WHAT
SO DR. NAROD, YOU HEARD WHAT DR.
MORROW SAID THAT SHE DOESN'T
DR. MORROW SAID THAT SHE DOESN'T
BELIEVE THE TREATMENT SHOULD
CHANGE AS A RESULT OF THIS
CHANGE AS A RESULT
OF THIS STUDY.
STUDY. ARE YOU SAYING SOMETHING
ARE YOU SAYING SOMETHING
DIFFERENT SHOULD BE DONE?
DIFFERENT SHOULD BE DONE? THAT
WOMEN SHOULD WAIT IF THEY
THAT WOMEN SHOULD WAIT IF THEY
HAVE A VERY EARLY STAGE BREAST
HAVE A VERY EARLY
STAGE BREAST CANCER?
CANCER? >> NO, I SAID I DEFER TO
>> NO, I SAID I DEFER TO DR.
MORROW WHO IS THE PRACTICING
DR. MORROW WHO IS THE PRACTICING
SURGEON, WHICH I'M NOT.
WHAT I DO SAY IS THERE ARE TWO
CLEAR GOALS OF TREATMENT FOR
D.C.I.S., SEPARATE GOALS.
D.C.I.S., SEPARATE GOALS. THE
FIRST GOAL, THE ONE WE HAVE
THE FIRST GOAL, THE ONE WE HAVE
BEEN ACCUSTOMED TO AND THE ONE
WE'VE ALWAYS PRIORITIZED IS TO
PREVENT A NEW BREAST CANCER
EVENT OR RECURRENCE.
EVENT OR RECURRENCE. IF THE
GOAL IS TO PREVENT THE
IF THE GOAL IS TO PREVENT THE
BREAST CANCER DEATH, THEN WE
BREAST CANCER DEATH, THEN
WE FOUND NO BENEFIT IN THE
FOUND NO BENEFIT IN THE
RADIOTHERAPY AND MASTECTOMY FROM
RADIOTHERAPY AND MASTECTOMY
FROM THE EXTENTS OF SURGERY.
THE EXTENTS OF SURGERY. >>
Woodruff: DR. MORROW, WHAT
>> Woodruff: DR. MORROW, WHAT
SHOULD A WOMAN WATCHING THIS WHO
IS -- YOU KNOW, HAS TO MAKE A
DECISION, OR A WOMAN WHO HAS HAD
THE MORE RADICAL TREATMENT IN
THE PAST AND IS WONDERING IF SHE
SHOULD HAVE HAD IT, WHAT ARE
THESE WOMEN TO THINK NOW?
THESE WOMEN TO THINK NOW? >>
WELL, I THINK WOMEN WHO HAVE
>> WELL, I THINK WOMEN WHO HAVE
HAD RADICAL TREATMENT CAN BE
REASSURED THAT THEY HAVE AN
EXTREMELY HIGH PROBABILITY OF
NOT DYING OF THE D.C.I.S. THAT
THEY HAVE BEEN TREATED FOR, AND
THAT'S A VERY GOOD POSITION TO
THAT'S A VERY GOOD
POSITION TO BE IN.
BE IN. WE CAN'T
ALWAYS SAY THAT FOR
WE CAN'T ALWAYS SAY THAT FOR
RADICAL TREATMENT OF INVASIVE
RADICAL TREATMENT OF
INVASIVE BREAST CANCER.
BREAST CANCER. FOR WOMEN
LOOKING AT TREATMENT
FOR WOMEN LOOKING AT TREATMENT
TODAY, THOUGH, I THINK THEY HAVE
TODAY, THOUGH, I THINK THEY
HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO ASK THE
THE OPPORTUNITY TO ASK THE
SURGEON WHO IS COUNSELING THEM,
WHAT ARE MY OPTIONS, WHAT ARE
THE FACTORS THAT SUGGEST I MIGHT
BENEFIT FROM MORE AGGRESSIVE
BENEFIT FROM MORE
AGGRESSIVE TREATMENT.
TREATMENT. IF YOU'RE
NOT GIVEN OPTIONS,
IF YOU'RE NOT GIVEN OPTIONS,
THAT'S A GOOD TIME TO SEEK A
THAT'S A GOOD TIME TO
SEEK A SECOND OPINION.
SECOND OPINION. THE OTHER
THINGLY SAY IS THAT --
THE OTHER THINGLY SAY IS THAT --
THE OTHER THING I WILL SAY IS
DEATH IS THE PRIMARY END POINT
OF THE SURGERY, FOR OTHER WOMEN
LOSING THE BREAST IS SOMETHING
THEY WOULD LIKE TO SEEK
ADDITIONAL TREATMENT TO AVOID
AND THERE I THINK A PERSON'S
INDIVIDUAL VALUES IS IMPORTANT
IN DECIDING WHAT IS RIGHT FOR
IN DECIDING WHAT IS
RIGHT FOR HER TO DO.
HER TO DO. >>
Woodruff: EVERY WOMAN
>> Woodruff: EVERY WOMAN SHOULD
HAVE A CLOSE CONVERSATION
SHOULD HAVE A CLOSE CONVERSATION
WITH HER OWN PHYSICIAN AND WE
WILL LEAVE IT ON THAT NOTE.
WE WANT TO THANK BOTH OF YOU,
DR. MONICA MORROW AND DR. STEVEN
DR. MONICA MORROW AND
DR. STEVEN NAROD.
NAROD. WE PRECAPIATE IT.
WE PRECAPIATE IT. >> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU. VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: NEXT, WE CONTINUE OUR
SERIES "RETHINKING COLLEGE:
CLOSING THE GRADUATION GAP."
TONIGHT, HARI SREENIVASAN LOOKS
AT AN EFFORT IN FLORIDA TO
REDEFINE THE MISSION OF
REDEFINE THE MISSION
OF COMMUNITY COLLEGE.
COMMUNITY COLLEGE. >>
Sreenivasan: FOR YEARS,
>> Sreenivasan: FOR YEARS,
COLLEGE STUDENTS HAVE HAD THE
ODDS STACKED AGAINST EM.TH
ODDS STACKED AGAINST EM.TH AS
A FIRST-GENERATION AMERICAN
AS A FIRST-GENERATION AMERICAN
FROM A LOW-INCOME FAMILY WITH NO
COLLEGE EXPERIENCE, MULLINS IS A
COLLEGE EXPERIENCE, MULLINS
IS A STATISTICAL LONG SHOT TO
STATISTICAL LONG SHOT TO
GRADUATE FROM A FOUR-YEAR
GRADUATE FROM A
FOUR-YEAR UNIVERSITY.
UNIVERSITY. >> I REALLY
JUST WANT TO MAKE
>> I REALLY JUST WANT TO MAKE
SURE I CAN SUPPORT MYSELF AND
SURE I CAN SUPPORT MYSELF
AND SUPPORT MY FAMILY.
SUPPORT MY FAMILY. THIS
MAY BE THAT DIFFERENCE.
THIS MAY BE THAT DIFFERENCE.
>> Sreenivasan: A UNIQUE
AGREEMENT PUSES IN HER
HOMETOWN IN OLDER OR MAY
DRAMATICALLY IMPROVE HER
DRAMATICALLY IMPROVE
HER CHANCES.
CHANCES. THIS JANUARY,
MULLINS WAS ABLE
THIS JANUARY, MULLINS WAS ABLE
TO TRANSFER FROM A COMMUNITY
COLLEGE TO THE UNIVERSITY OF
COLLEGE TO THE UNIVERSITY
OF CENTRAL FLORIDA.
CENTRAL FLORIDA. THE
AGREEMENT CALLED DIRECT
THE AGREEMENT CALLED DIRECT
CONNECT GUARANTEES THESE
VALENCIA COMMUNITY COLLEGE
STUDENTS WHO EARN A TWO-YEAR
ASSOCIATE'S DEGREE TO ADMISSION
ASSOCIATE'S DEGREE TO
ADMISSION TO U.C.F.
TO U.C.F. THE
FORT'S PRESIDENT --
THE FORT'S PRESIDENT -- >>
THEIR SUCCESS IN EARNING THE
>> THEIR SUCCESS IN EARNING THE
DEGREE CONVINCES US THEY'RE A
GOOD BET FOR ADMISSION TO U.C.F.
>> Sreenivasan: DIRECT CONNECT
TACKLES A TOUGH PROBLEM IN
TACKLES A TOUGH PROBLEM
IN HIGHER EDUCATION.
HIGHER EDUCATION. >> THE
FIRST PROBLEM IS --
>> THE FIRST PROBLEM IS --
>> Sreenivasan: WHILE THE
MAJORITY OF COLLEGERESH FMEN
TODAY BEGIN AT TWO-YEAR
COMMUNITY COLLEGES, THEIR
CREDITS OFTEN DON'T TRANSFER TO
CREDITS OFTEN DON'T TRANSFER
TO FOUR-YEAR INSTITUTIONS.
FOUR-YEAR INSTITUTIONS. IN
FACT, NEARLY ONE IN SEVEN
IN FACT, NEARLY ONE IN SEVEN
COMMUNITY COLLEGE STUDENTS LOSE
90% OF THEIR CREDITS WHEN THEY
90% OF THEIR CREDITS WHEN
THEY TRANSFER TO A FOUR-YEAR
TRANSFER TO A FOUR-YEAR
INSTITUTION.
INSTITUTION. >> IT
HOUSES OUR PARTNERSHIP
>> IT HOUSES OUR PARTNERSHIP
WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL
WITH THE UNIVERSITY
OF CENTRAL FLORIDA.
FLORIDA. >> Sreenivasan:
THE IDEA OF
>> Sreenivasan: THE IDEA OF
DIRECT CONNECT CAME FROM SANDY
SHOW YOU GUARD, WHO SAYS
COMMUNITY COLLEGES SHOULD BE
SEEN AS A STEPPING STONE.
SEEN AS A STEPPING STONE. >>
WE ARE NOT A DTINAESTION.
>> WE ARE NOT A DTINAESTION.
MOST COLLEGES WANT TO THINK OF
THEMSELVES AS A DESTINATION,
COME HERE, WE'LL MAKE YOU HAPPY
AND BE YOUR ALMA MATER FOREVER.
WE'RE A BRIDGE AND I WANT TO BE
WE'RE A BRIDGE AND I WANT TO
BE THE BEST BRIDGE WE CAN BE.
THE BEST BRIDGE WE CAN BE. >>
Sreenivasan: THE UNIVERSITY
>> Sreenivasan: THE UNIVERSITY
PRESIDENT SAYS THE UNIVERSITIES
SHOULD OPEN DOORS TO MORE
SHOULD OPEN DOORS
TO MORE GRADUATES.
GRADUATES. >> THERE IS
A PREJUDICE AGAINST
>> THERE IS A PREJUDICE AGAINST
MANY GRADUATES OFHE C TOMMUNITY
MANY GRADUATES OFHE C
TOMMUNITY COLLEGES.
COLLEGES. >> BOTH
WERE MOTIVATED BY A
>> BOTH WERE MOTIVATED BY A
DIZERO TO DIVERSIFY ORLANDO'S
DIZERO TO DIVERSIFY
ORLANDO'S ECONOMY.
ECONOMY. MOST WORKFORCE
IS IN TOURISM AND
MOST WORKFORCE IS IN TOURISM
AND HOSPITALITY JOBS.
HOSPITALITY JOBS. >> YOU
ASK THE QUESTION HOW IS
>> YOU ASK THE QUESTION HOW IS
SOCIAL MOBILITY OBTAINED IN THE
U.S. IT IS PREDOMINANTLY THROUGH
GAINING HIGHER EDUCATION.
GAINING HIGHER EDUCATION. WE
HAVE TO DO A BETTER JOB OF
WE HAVE TO DO A BETTER JOB OF
MAKING EDUCATION AVAILABLE TO
ALL DIFFERENT INCOME GROUPS.
>> Sreenivasan: A DREAM OF A
BETTER LIFE GROWGHT STUDENT
ALEXANDRIA CASTRO TO VALENCIA'S
COMMUNITY COLLEGE CAMPUS.
COMMUNITY COLLEGE CAMPUS. >>
IT'S RIGHT HERE ON A SILVER
>> IT'S RIGHT HERE ON A
SILVER PLATTER FOR ME.
PLATTER FOR ME. WHY
WOULDN'T I TAKE IT?
WHY WOULDN'T I TAKE IT? >>
A THIRD OF OUR ECONOMY IS
>> A THIRD OF OUR ECONOMY IS
LOW-WAGE AND SERVICE-ORIENTED.
PART OF OUR MISSION IS TO FIND
THOSE PEOPLE, EQUIP THEM AND LET
THOSE PEOPLE, EQUIP THEM
AND LET THEM MOVE ON.
THEM MOVE ON. THERE IS
NOTHING WRONG WITH A
THERE IS NOTHING WRONG WITH A
$9 OR $10 JOB IN THE SERVICE
INDUSTRIES IF IT'S YOUR FIRST
INDUSTRIES IF IT'S
YOUR FIRST JOB.
JOB. IF IT'S YOUR
LAST JOB, THERE IS
IF IT'S YOUR LAST JOB, THERE
IS A PROBLEM BECAUSE YOU CAN'T
A PROBLEM BECAUSE YOU CAN'T
SUSTAIN A FAMILY ON IT.
SUSTAIN A FAMILY ON IT. >>
EVERYBODY UNDERSTAND HOW TO
>> EVERYBODY UNDERSTAND
HOW TO UPLOAD A FILE?
UPLOAD A FILE? >>
Sreenivasan: OTHER STATES
>> Sreenivasan: OTHER STATES
HAVE SIMILAR PROGRAMS BUT WHAT
MAKES DIRECT CONNECT SO VALUABLE
IS A GUARANTEE OF A UNIVERSITY
IS A GUARANTEE OF A
UNIVERSITY NOT FAR FROM HOME.
NOT FAR FROM HOME. THAT'S
IMPORTANT TO COMMUNITY
THAT'S IMPORTANT TO COMMUNITY
COLLEGE STUDENTS THE MAJORITY OF
COLLEGE STUDENTS THE MAJORITY
OF WHOM ARE COMMUTERS.
WHOM ARE COMMUTERS. IN
ALEXANDRIA CASTRO'S CASE, SHE
IN ALEXANDRIA CASTRO'S CASE,
SHE LIVES AT HOME TO HELP WITH
LIVES AT HOME TO HELP WITH
YOUNGER SIBLINGS WHILE HER
YOUNGER SIBLINGS WHILE
HER MOTHER WORKS.
MOTHER WORKS. >> I TAKE
MORNING CLASSES SO
>> I TAKE MORNING CLASSES SO
THAT EVEN WHEN I'M ON THE BUS, I
COME HOME ON TIME AND THEN, YOU
KNOW, I MAKE THEM LUNCH OR
KNOW, I MAKE THEM
LUNCH OR DINNER.
DINNER. I'LL CHECK
THEIR HOMEWORK, I'LL
I'LL CHECK THEIR HOMEWORK, I'LL
DO MY HOMEWORK AND GO TO SLEEP.
DO MY HOMEWORK AND GO TO
SLEEP. I'M HELPING HER OUT.
I'M HELPING HER OUT. >>
Sreenivasan: USING DIRECT
>> Sreenivasan: USING DIRECT
CONNECT, COMMUNITY COLLEGE
STUDENTS PAY THOUSANDS LESS THAN
STUDENTS PAY THOUSANDS LESS
THAN STUDENTS WHO START THE
STUDENTS WHO START THE
UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA AS
UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL
FLORIDA AS FRESHMEN.
FRESHMEN. WHAT DOES
I.C.F. GET OUT TO HAVE
WHAT DOES I.C.F. GET OUT TO HAVE
THE THE DIRECT CONNECT DEAL?
THE THE DIRECT CONNECT
DEAL? DIVERSITY.
DIVERSITY. IN THE
PAST FIVE YEARS, THE
IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS, THE
NUMBER OF HISPANIC STUDENTS
EARNING BACHELOR'S DEGREE HAS
EARNING BACHELOR'S
DEGREE HAS JUMPED 134%.
JUMPED 134%. THE NUMBER
OF GRADUATING BLACK
THE NUMBER OF GRADUATING BLACK
STUDENTS HAS NEARLY DOUBLED.
STUDENTS HAS NEARLY DOUBLED. >>
IF YOU'RE THE FIRST IN THEIR
>> IF YOU'RE THE FIRST IN THEIR
FAMILY TO GET A DEGREE, IT NOT
ONLY CHANGES THEIR LIFE, BUT THE
CHANCE THEIR CHILDREN WILL GO TO
CHANCE THEIR CHILDREN WILL GO
TO COLLEGE AND GRADUATE GOES UP
COLLEGE AND GRADUATE
GOES UP ENORMOUSLY.
ENORMOUSLY. >>
Sreenivasan: SHENAY
>> Sreenivasan: SHENAY
BELIEVES A BACHELOR'S WILL
PROTECT HER FROM THE FINANCIAL
INSECURITIES SHE FACED GROWING
INSECURITIES SHE
FACED GROWING UP.
UP. >> WE LIVED IN AN APARTMENT.
>> WE LIVED IN AN APARTMENT.
SOMETIMES, YOU KNOW, MAYBE I GET
THE ELECTRICITY GETS CUT OFF.
THE ELECTRICITY GETS CUT OFF. I
DON'T WANT TO LIVE LIKE THAT
I DON'T WANT TO LIVE LIKE THAT
AND HAVING TO BORROW TO SUPPORT
AND HAVING TO BORROW
TO SUPPORT MYSELF.
MYSELF. >> Sreenivasan: SHOULD
>> Sreenivasan: SHOULD COMMUNITY
COLLEGE STUDENTS FEEL
COMMUNITY COLLEGE STUDENTS FEEL
COMPELLED TO PURSUE A FOUR-YEAR
COMPELLED TO PURSUE
A FOUR-YEAR DEGREE?
DEGREE? >> WE HAVE
THE SORT OF MANTRA
>> WE HAVE THE SORT OF MANTRA
THAT SAYS COLLEGE IS THE GATEWAY
TO SOCIAL MOBILITY AND I THINK,
IN THE PAST, WE WERE ABLE TO
ENTER INTO THE MIDDLE CLASS MORE
ENTER INTO THE MIDDLE
CLASS MORE ASSUREDLY.
ASSUREDLY. NOW
IT'S NOT THE CASE.
NOW IT'S NOT THE CASE. >>
Sreenivasan: MICHELLE WISE
>> Sreenivasan: MICHELLE WISE
SAYS THE PUSH FOR BACHELOR'S
DEGREES MAY BE AN EXPENSIVE AND
DEGREES MAY BE AN EXPENSIVE
AND UNNECESSARY PURSUIT.
UNNECESSARY PURSUIT. >> THERE
IS STUFF IN BETWEEN THE
>> THERE IS STUFF IN BETWEEN THE
TWO-YEAR AND FOUR-YEAR DEGREE,
THOSE ARE THINGS WE SHOULD THINK
ABOUT IN TERMS OF LEADERS FOR
ABOUT IN TERMS OF LEADERS
FOR SOCIAL MOBILITY.
SOCIAL MOBILITY. IN TERMS
OF WAGE EARNING, IT'S
IN TERMS OF WAGE EARNING, IT'S
PROBABLY A BETTER IDEA FOR THOSE
STUDENTS TO GET A PROFESSIONAL
CERTIFICATION OR CERTIFICATE
CERTIFICATION OR
CERTIFICATE INSTEAD.
INSTEAD. >>
Sreenivasan: WEISS SAYS
>> Sreenivasan: WEISS SAYS
CERTIFICATES, MANY SPONSORED BY
CERTIFICATES, MANY SPONSORED
BY EMPLOYERS, CAN LEAD TO
EMPLOYERS, CAN LEAD
TO GOOD-PAYING JOBS.
GOOD-PAYING JOBS. >> WEB
DEVELOPMENT, LOGISTICS,
>> WEB DEVELOPMENT, LOGISTICS,
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT, DATA,
DATA ANALYTICS, THESE ARE ALL
THINGS WHERE THEY'RE TRYING TO
CREATE A PIPELINE OF STUDENTS
WHO CAN IMMEDIATELY GET
RECRUITED INTO JOBS.
RECRUITED INTO JOBS. ONCE
THEY FINISH, SOMETIMES A
ONCE THEY FINISH,
SOMETIMES A SIX-WEEK TO
SIX-WEEK TO >> NATIONALLY,
80% OF STUDENTS
>> NATIONALLY, 80% OF STUDENTS
ENTERING COMMUNITY COLLEGE SAY
THEY WANT A FOUR-YEAR DEGREE.
BUT ONLY 17% ACTUALLY SUCCEED.
FOR THEIR PART, VALENCIA
COMMUNITY COLLEGE TRANSFERS ARE
EARNING DEGREES AT FOUR TIMES
EARNING DEGREES AT FOUR
TIMES THE NATIONAL RATE.
THE NATIONAL RATE. >>
OUR TRANSFER STUDENTS
>> OUR TRANSFER STUDENTS
REPRESENT ALMOST A FOURTH OF ALL
REPRESENT ALMOST A FOURTH
OF ALL THE GRADUATES AT THE
THE GRADUATES AT THE
SECOND-LARGEST PUBLIC UNIVERSITY
SECOND-LARGEST PUBLIC
UNIVERSITY IN AMERICA.
IN AMERICA. AT THE
POINT OF GRADUATION,
AT THE POINT OF GRADUATION,
THEY'RE GRADUATING WITH
VIRTUALLY THE SAME GPA.
VIRTUALLY THE SAME GPA. >>
Sreenivasan: SHENAY MULLINS
>> Sreenivasan: SHENAY MULLINS
PLANS TO BE ONE TO HAVE THE
PLANS TO BE ONE TO
HAVE THE GRADUATES.
GRADUATES. >> I CAN
SUPPORT MYSELF, I WENT
>> I CAN SUPPORT MYSELF, I WENT
AND GOT HIGHER EDUCATION SO MY
PARENTS ARE VERY PROUD OF ME.
>> Sreenivasan: FROM ORLANDO,
FLORIDA, HARI SREENIVASAN, PBS
FLORIDA, HARI SREENIVASAN,
PBS "NewsHour".
>> Woodruff: NEXT, A LOOK AT A
SEEMINGLY COUNTER-INTUITIVE
BUSINESS MODEL.
BUSINESS MODEL. ECONOMICS
CORRESPONDENT PAUL
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN GOES INSIDE AN AMERICAN
CLOTHING COMPANY THAT HAS BEEN
GROWING RAPIDLY, WHILE MARKETING
ITSELF AS AN ANTI-GROWTH
ITSELF AS AN
ANTI-GROWTH BUSINESS.
BUSINESS. IT'S PART
OF OUR WEEKLY SERIES,
IT'S PART OF OUR WEEKLY SERIES,
"MAKING SENSE," WHICH AIRS EVERY
THURSDAY ON THE NEWSHOUR.
THURSDAY ON THE NEWSHOUR. >>
ARE YOU GUYS SITTING DOWN
>> ARE YOU GUYS SITTING
DOWN BECAUSE THIS IS PRETTY
BECAUSE THIS IS
PRETTY HORRIFYING.
HORRIFYING. OKAY?
OKAY? DOG BITE?
DOG BITE? SHARK ATTACK?
SHARK ATTACK? >> Reporter:
SEAMSTRESS CATHY
>> Reporter: SEAMSTRESS CATHY
AVERETT COULDN'T CARE LESS.
WHE>>N I GET SOMETHING LIKE
THIS I DOY BE MST TO MAKE IT
KIND OF SPECIAL, YOU KNOW?
KIND OF SPECIAL, YOU KNOW? IT
DOESN'T LOOK NEW BUT SO WHAT,
IT DOESN'T LOOK NEW
BUT SO WHAT, OKAY?
OKAY? I DON'T LOOK NEW ANYMORE.
I DON'T LOOK NEW
ANYMORE. IT'S OK!
IT'S OK! >> Reporter:
AVERETT STITCHES
>> Reporter: AVERETT STITCHES
FOR PATAGONIA, THE OUTDOOR
CLOTHING COMPANY HIGH END ENOUGH
TO HAVE EARNED THE NICKNAME
TO HAVE EARNED THE
NICKNAME PATAGUCCI.
PATAGUCCI. DOWNSTAIRS,
THE COMPANY'S RENO,
DOWNSTAIRS, THE COMPANY'S
RENO, NEVA WAADREHOUSE AND
NEVA WAADREHOUSE AND
DISTRIBUTION CENTER SENDS ITS
GARMENTS HITHER AND YON.
>> TO BE WORN BY ROCK AND
>> TO BE WORN BY ROCK
AND MOUNTAIN CLIMBERS.
MOUNTAIN CLIMBERS.
SKIERS AND SNOWBOARDERS.
SKIERS AND
SNOWBOARDERS. SURFERS.
SURFERS. TRAIL RUNNERS.
TRAIL RUNNERS. OR FOLKS
WHO JUST WANT TO DRESS
OR FOLKS WHO JUST WANT TO DRESS
AS IF THEY DO ALL THAT STUFF.
>> Reporter: AND EACH DAY SOME
OF THOSE CLOTHES MAKE THEIR WAY
BACK TO RENO, TO WHAT'S BILLED
AS THE LARGEST CLOTHING REHAB
FACILITY IN NORTH AMERICA.
FACILITY IN NORTH AMERICA. >>
THEY MESS THEM UP AND WE FIX
>> THEY MESS THEM UP
AND WE FIX THEM UP!
THEM UP! BEHIND
ME ARE 55 PEOPLE,
BEHIND ME ARE 55 PEOPLE,
EXTENDING THE LIFE OF OUR
PRODUCT FOR OUR CUSTOMERS.
>> Reporter: DOUG FREEMAN IS
PATAGONIA'S CHIEF OPERATING
PATAGONIA'S CHIEF
OPERATING OFFICER.
OFFICER. >> WE WANT
OUR CUSTOMERS TO
>> WE WANT OUR CUSTOMERS TO
INVEST IN GREAT PRODUCT AND WHEN
IT'S WORN OUT, WE WANT TO REPAIR
IT'S WORN OUT, WE WANT
TO REPAIR IT FOR THEM.
IT FOR THEM. >> Reporter:
IT DOESN'T SOUND
>> Reporter: IT DOESN'T SOUND
ECONOMICAL FOR THE COMPANY.
>> I CAN UNDERSTAND WHY YOU
>> I CAN UNDERSTAND WHY
YOU WOULD SAY THAT.
WOULD SAY THAT. BUT THE
WAY WE VIEW IT IS THAT
BUT THE WAY WE VIEW IT IS THAT
WE WANT TO REDUCE CONSUMPTION.
>> Reporter: THAT'S WHAT MAKES
PATAGONIA SO ODD --A SUPPOSEDLY
ANTI-CONSUMPTION CORPORATION.
SINCE ITS FOUNDING IN 1973, IT'S
ALWAYS HAD A SO-CALLED IRONCLAD
GUARANTEE, INCLUDING FREE
GUARANTEE, INCLUDING
FREE REPAIRS.
REPAIRS. BUT RECENTLY,
THE COMPANY RAMPED
BUT RECENTLY, THE COMPANY RAMPED
UP ITS PROMOTION OF THAT PLEDGE,
WITH A CROSS COUNTRY "WORN WEAR"
BUS TOUR-- BIO-DIESEL FUELED, OF
BUS TOUR-- BIO-DIESEL FUELED,
OF COURSE-- TAILORS REVIVING
COURSE-- TAILORS REVIVING
GARMENTS AT STOPS ALONG THE WAY.
AND THOUGH IT SPENDS LITTLE ON
ADVERTISING, PATAGONIA DONATES
MORE THAN TWICE AS MUCH TO
MORE THAN TWICE AS MUCH
TO ENVIRONMENTAL CAUSES.
ENVIRONMENTAL CAUSES. >> WE
GIVE AWAY ONE PERCENT OF
>> WE GIVE AWAY ONE PERCENT OF
SALES EACH YEAR TO GRASSROOTS
ENVIRONMENTAORGAL NIZATIONS
AROUND THE WORLD.
AROUND THE WORLD. >>
Reporter: THE COMPANY IS
>> Reporter: THE COMPANY IS
ALWAYS ON MESSAGE, AS IN A
FAMOUS FULL PAGE NEW YORK TIMES
AD: "DON'T BUY THIS JACKET".
>> IT SEEMS OXYMORONIC.
>> IT SEEMS OXYMORONIC. >>
Reporter: IT CERTAINLY DOES.
>> Reporter: IT CERTAINLY DOES.
IN FACT, SALES ARE BOOMING - UP
25-30% A YEAR SINCE THAT AD RAN.
BUT, WE WANTED TO KNOW, IS THIS
BUT, WE WANTED TO KNOW, IS
THIS JUST A SALES GIMMICK?
JUST A SALES GIMMICK? SO WE
WENT TO THE NEW PATAGONIA
SO WE WENT TO THE NEW PATAGONIA
STORE IN NEW YORK CITY'S SOHO
STORE IN NEW YORK
CITY'S SOHO DISTRICT.
DISTRICT. WHICH
BOASTS ITS OWN REPAIR
WHICH BOASTS ITS OWN REPAIR
CENTER. AND, IN KEEPING WITH THE
REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE ETHOS,
FEATURES WOOD BEAMS SALVAGED
FROM THE FORMER DOMINO SUGAR
FACTORY AND MARBLE COUNTERS
RECLAIMED FROM THE RENOVATION OF
RECLAIMED FROM THE RENOVATION
OF THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART.
THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART.
TURNS OUT CUSTOMERS LIKE YOGA
INSTRUCTOR KIM LARKIN BUY INTO
INSTRUCTOR KIM LARKIN BUY
INTO "DON'T BUY THIS JACKET."
"DON'T BUY THIS JACKET."
>> IT'S INTRIGUING BECAUSE
NOBODY IS SAYING THAT.
NOBODY IS SAYING THAT. EVERYBODY
WANTS YOU TO BUY THEIR
EVERYBODY WANTS YOU
TO BUY THEIR STUFF.
STUFF. >> Reporter:
BUT ARE YOU LESS OR
>> Reporter: BUT ARE YOU LESS
OR MORE LIKELY TO BUY SOMETHING
MORE LIKELY TO BUY SOMETHING
ONCE YOU'VE BEEN TOLD NOT TO BUY
ONCE YOU'VE BEEN
TOLD NOT TO BUY IT?
IT? >> I THINK I'M
MORE LIKELY TO
>> I THINK I'M MORE
LIKELY TO BUY IT.
BUY IT. >> Reporter: WHY?
>> Reporter: WHY? >>
BECAUSE IT FEELS LIKE IT'S
>> BECAUSE IT FEELS LIKE IT'S
AGAINST CONSUMERISM IN SOME WAY.
>> Reporter: SO WHAT'S GOING ON?
WELL, ACCORDING TO PATAGONIA, IF
YOU BUY STUFF THAT LASTS --AND
GETS REVIVED SO IT WILL LAST
EVEN LONGER-- WELL, IN THE LONG
RUN, LESS STUFF WILL GET MADE
RUN, LESS STUFF WILL
GET MADE AND CONSUMED.
AND CONSUMED. >> WE
HOPE OUR EXISTING
>> WE HOPE OUR EXISTING
CUSTOMERS DO INDEED BUY LESS.
BUT WE HOPE TO ATTRACT MORE
CUSTOMERS THAT ARE INTERESTED IN
CUSTOMERS THAT ARE
INTERESTED IN OUR MESSAGE:
OUR MESSAGE: TO BUILD
THE BEST PRODUCT TO
TO BUILD THE BEST PRODUCT TO
REDUCE OUR IMPACT AND CAUSE THE
LEAST AMOUNT OF ENVIRONMENTAL
LEAST AMOUNT OF
ENVIRONMENTAL HARM.
HARM. >> Reporter:
THE WAY YOU COULD
>> Reporter: THE WAY YOU COULD
REALLY REDUCE THE COMPANY'S
FOOTPRINT IS BY NOT SELLING ANY
FOOTPRINT IS BY NOT SELLING
ANY PRODUCT AT ALL!
PRODUCT AT ALL! >> SURE,
BUT IF WE CAN SHOW THE
>> SURE, BUT IF WE CAN SHOW THE
BUSINESS COMMUNITY THAT WE'RE
SUCCESSFUL, WE THINK WE'RE
HOLDING OURSELVES AS A GREAT
EXAMPLE FOR HOW BUSINESS CAN BE
EXAMPLE FOR HOW BUSINESS
CAN BE DONE DIFFERENTLY.
DONE DIFFERENTLY. >> Reporter:
SO YOU'RE TRYING TO
>> Reporter: SO YOU'RE TRYING TO
KNOCK OFF ALL THE COMPETITORS
OUT THERE WHO ARE MAKING
THROWAWAY PRODUCTS, ESSENTIALLY?
THROWAWAY PRODUCTS,
ESSENTIALLY? >> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> THAT'S RIGHT. >>
Reporter: SO THAT'S THE
>> Reporter: SO
THAT'S THE MESSAGE.
MESSAGE. AND IT'S
CERTAINLY WORKING.
AND IT'S CERTAINLY WORKING.
30-YEAR OLD RICH DANIELS IS AN
ASPIRING MEN'S FASHION DESIGNER
WHO WOULD LIKE TO EMULATE
PATAGONIA'S LESS IS MORE
PATAGONIA'S LESS IS
MORE PHILOSOPHY.
PHILOSOPHY. >> I
THINK THIS PATAGONIA
>> I THINK THIS PATAGONIA
CAMPAIGN IS DEFINITELY A PART OF
CAMPAIGN IS DEFINITELY A PART
OF A BIGGER MOVEMENT OF FEWER,
A BIGGER MOVEMENT OF
FEWER, BETTER THINGS.
BETTER THINGS. I'M NOT
INTERESTED IN DISPOSABLE
I'M NOT INTERESTED IN
DISPOSABLE FASHION.
FASHION. >> Reporter:
IN FACT, HE WAS
>> Reporter: IN FACT, HE WAS
SHOPPING FOR A PATAGONIA JACKET
TO REPLACE ONE HIS PARENTS HAD
TO REPLACE ONE HIS PARENTS
HAD BOUGHT HIM WHEN HE 15.
BOUGHT HIM WHEN HE 15. >>
Reporter: BUT DO YOU FEEL AT
>> Reporter: BUT DO YOU FEEL AT
ALL AS IF YOU'RE BEING KIND OF
ALL AS IF YOU'RE BEING
KIND OF SUCKERED?
SUCKERED? >> Reporter:
WELL, DON'T BUY
>> Reporter: WELL, DON'T BUY
THIS JACKET AND YET, PLEASE BUY
THIS JACKET AND YET,
PLEASE BUY THIS JACKET.
THIS JACKET. >> SURE.
>> SURE. I MEAN, THEIR
GOAL IS TO SELL
I MEAN, THEIR GOAL IS TO SELL
CLOTHES NO MATTER WHAT IT TAKES.
BUT I KNOW THAT I'M GONNA HAVE
SOMETHING THAT'S GONNA LAST ME
SOMETHING THAT'S GONNA LAST
ME A REALLY LONG TIME.
A REALLY LONG TIME. >>
Reporter: COULD THE COMPANY
>> Reporter: COULD THE COMPANY
BE ACCUSED OF CONNING THE
BE ACCUSED OF CONNING
THE CUSTOMER?
CUSTOMER? DISTRICT MANAGER BETSY
DISTRICT MANAGER
BETSY PANTAZELOS.
PANTAZELOS. AND IN THE
END, THERE IS MORE
AND IN THE END, THERE IS MORE
CONSUMERISM AND NOT LESS?
CONSUMERISM AND NOT LESS? >>
I THINK NOT ONLY CAN THAT BE
>> I THINK NOT ONLY CAN THAT BE
SAID, I THINK PEOPLE HAVE SAID
SAID, I THINK PEOPLE
HAVE SAID THAT.
THAT. BUT AT THE END
OF THE DAY, THIS
BUT AT THE END OF THE DAY, THIS
IS REALLY, TRULY WHO WE ARE AND
IS REALLY, TRULY WHO WE ARE
AND WE'RE TRYING TO INVENT A
WE'RE TRYING TO INVENT A
DIFFERENT APPROACH TO ECONOMICS
DIFFERENT APPROACH TO
ECONOMICS AND TO CONSUMERISM.
AND TO CONSUMERISM. AND
THAT WE RECOGNIZE.
AND THAT WE RECOGNIZE. WE
JUST NEED TO START HAVING A
WE JUST NEED TO START
HAVING A CONVERSATION.
CONVERSATION. >> Reporter:
OKAY, LET'S GRANT
>> Reporter: OKAY, LET'S GRANT
THE COMPANY THE BENEFIT OF THE
THE COMPANY THE
BENEFIT OF THE DOUBT.
DOUBT. BUT HOW, IN
SHORT-TERM, WALL
BUT HOW, IN SHORT-TERM, WALL
STREET-DRIVEN CORPORATE AMERICA,
HAVE THEY GOTTEN AWAY WITH A
FOUNDER YVON CHOUINARD, WHOM WE
WERE UNABLE TO INTERVIEW BECAUSE
HE WAS FLY FISHING, TOLD AN
ENVIRONMENTAL FORUM RECENTLY
THAT BECAUSE PATAGONIA IS
PRIVATELY HELD, HE'S FREE TO
REJECT TRADITIONAL CORPORATE
REJECT TRADITIONAL
CORPORATE VALUES.
VALUES. >> THE PROBLEM
WITH A LOT OF
>> THE PROBLEM WITH A LOT OF
PUBLIC COMPANIES IS THAT THEY'RE
FORCED TO GROW 15 PERCENT A
FORCED TO GROW 15
PERCENT A YEAR.
YEAR. THEY'RE FORCED
TO SHOW PROFIT
THEY'RE FORCED TO SHOW
PROFIT EVERY QUARTER.
EVERY QUARTER. THERE'S
NOT ONE PUBLIC COMPANY
THERE'S NOT ONE PUBLIC COMPANY
THAT WILL VOLUNTARILY RESTRICT
THEIR GROWTH FOR THE SAKE OF
THEIR GROWTH FOR THE SAKE
OF SAVING THE PLANET.
SAVING THE PLANET. >>
Reporter: IN FACT, CHOUINARD
>> Reporter: IN FACT, CHOUINARD
HAS TAKEN LEGAL STEPS TO TRY TO
HAS TAKEN LEGAL STEPS TO TRY
TO PREVENT PATAGONIA FROM EVER
PREVENT PATAGONIA FROM
EVER GOING PUBLIC.
GOING PUBLIC. BUT
WHAT'S SO CURIOUS TO
BUT WHAT'S SO CURIOUS TO
OBSERVERS IS THAT PATAGONIA, BY
VOLUNTARILY RESTRICTING GROWTH,
HAS FUELED MORE GROWTH.
HAS FUELED MORE GROWTH. >>
SO I AM FACED WITH THIS
>> SO I AM FACED WITH
THIS GROWTH THING.
GROWTH THING. WE COULD
BE A BILLION DOLLAR
WE COULD BE A BILLION DOLLAR
COMPANY IN A VERY FEW YEARS.
IT'S NOT SOMETHING I EVER WANTED
IT'S NOT SOMETHING I EVER
WANTED OR EVEN WANT.
OR EVEN WANT. >> SO
DON'T BUY THIS JACKET,
>> SO DON'T BUY
THIS JACKET, YEAH.
YEAH. DO YOU REALLY NEED IT?
DO YOU REALLY NEED IT? >>
Reporter: THE WORN WEAR
>> Reporter: THE WORN WEAR
TRUCK'S LATEST STOP: A MUSIC
FESTIVAL AT THE MUSEUM OF
CONTEMPORARY ART IN NORTH ADAMS
CONTEMPORARY ART IN NORTH
ADAMS MASSACHUSETTS.
MASSACHUSETTS. RENOWNED
ROCK CLIMBER TIMMY
RENOWNED ROCK CLIMBER TIMMY
O'NEILL IS ANOTHER PATAGONIA
MARKETING PLOY: NOT A PITCH MAN,
MARKETING PLOY: NOT A PITCH
MAN, BUT A BRAND AMBASSADOR.
BUT A BRAND AMBASSADOR. >>
IT'S NOT, "HI I'M TIMMY
>> IT'S NOT, "HI I'M TIMMY
O'NEILL BUY THIS JACKET."
O'NEILL BUY THIS JACKET." IT'S,
"HI I'M TIMMY O'NEILL GET
IT'S, "HI I'M TIMMY O'NEILL
GET OUTSIDE AND EXPERIENCE
OUTSIDE AND EXPERIENCE
WILDERNESS."
>> Reporter: AND HE
SEEMS TO MEAN IT.
MEAN IT. AS DOES
CLOTHING REHAB ARTIST
AS DOES CLOTHING REHAB
ARTIST CATHY AVERETT.
CATHY AVERETT. >> I'M
GONNA TELL YOU THE TRUTH,
>> I'M GONNA TELL YOU THE TRUTH,
OKAY? WHEN I FIRST STARTED HERE
OKAY? WHEN I FIRST STARTED
HERE I WAS EXCITED.
I WAS EXCITED. OH, PATAGONIA
MAN, THEY GOT GOOD
OH, PATAGONIA MAN, THEY GOT GOOD
STUFF, I BET THEY GOT A GOOD
STUFF, I BET THEY GOT A
GOOD EMPLOYEE DISCOUNT.
EMPLOYEE DISCOUNT. BUT
AFTER I WENT ON THE WORN
BUT AFTER I WENT ON THE WORN
WEAR TOUR, I'VE CHANGED MY WAY
WEAR TOUR, I'VE CHANGED
MY WAY OF THINKING.
OF THINKING. I'M ONLY
GONNA BUY WHAT I NEED.
I'M ONLY GONNA BUY WHAT I NEED.
>> Reporter: THIS IS ECONOMICS
CORRESPONDENT PAUL SOLMAN,
REPORTING FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR
FROM RENO, NEVADA, WHERE OLD
CLOTHES GO TO LIVE ANOTHER DAY.
>> Ifill: NOW TO OUR
WEEKLY FEATURE: "BRIEF BUT
FEATURE: "BRIEF
BUT SPECTACULAR."
SPECTACULAR." TONIGHT,
WE HEAR FROM JASON DUNN
TONIGHT, WE HEAR FROM JASON DUNN
OF MADE IN SPACE, A COMPANY
BASED OUT OF SINGULARITY
UNIVERSITY, THE CALIFORNIA-BASED
FIRM RESPONSIBLE FOR MAKING THE
FIRST 3-D PRINTER TO OPERATE OUT
FIRST 3-D PRINTER TO
OPERATE OUT OF THIS WORLD.
OF THIS WORLD. >> I
THINK THAT, IN OUR
>> I THINK THAT, IN OUR
LIFETIME, EVERYBODY WE KNOW WILL
HAVE A CHANCE TO GO TO SPACE.
IT'S REALLY HARD TO DO SPACE
EXPLORATION TODAY BECAUSE WE ARE
DEPENDENT ON BRINGING EVERYTHING
ON ROCKETS ON THE SURFACE OF THE
ON ROCKETS ON THE
SURFACE OF THE PLANET.
PLANET. WHAT WE STARTED
WORKING ON WAS
WHAT WE STARTED WORKING ON WAS
THE IDEA OF 3-D PRINTING IN
SPACE AND, IN FACT, JUST
BUILDING THE THINGS YOU NEED
BUILDING THE THINGS YOU
NEED WHEREVER YOU NEED IT.
WHEREVER YOU NEED IT.
TODAY'S VERSION OF SPACE
EXPLORATION IS LIKE A CAMPING
EXPLORATION IS LIKE
A CAMPING TRIP.
TRIP. WE BRING
EVERYTHING WE NEED WITH
WE BRING EVERYTHING WE NEED WITH
US AND IF SOMETHING GOES WRONG,
WE GO BACK HOME REALLY QUICK OR
CALL HOME AND ASK FOR SOME HELP.
SO IF WE WANT TO GO LIVE ON MARS
ONE DAY OR GO BACK TO THE MOON
AND SET UP A BASE, WE NEED TO
LEARN HOW TO BE SELF-SUFFICIENT
IN THE WAY WE EXPLORE SPACE.
FIGURING OUT HOW TO MAKE A 3-D
PRINTER WORK IN ZERO GRAFT WAS
ONE OF THE MOST DIFFICULT PARTS.
WE GOT TO TAKE OUR 3-D PRINTERS
INTO AN AIRCRAFT THAT FLIES
ACROBATIC MANEUVERS IN THE SKY.
ACROBATIC MANEUVERS IN THE
SKY. YOU GET A PERIOD OF
YOU GET A PERIOD OF
WEIGHTLESSNESS AND FLOAT INSIDE
WEIGHTLESSNESS AND FLOAT
INSIDE THE AIRPLANE.
THE AIRPLANE. EVERYTHING
IS FALLING INTO PLACE
EVERYTHING IS FALLING INTO PLACE
THAT WE CAN ACTUALLY SEND PEOPLE
TO MARS AND TO THE MOON AND TO
THE ASTROIDS AND WE CAN BUILD
ENTIRELY NEW WORLDS OF OUR OWN
LIKE LARGE SPACE STATIONS.
THAT'S REALLY THE VISION IS WE
HAVE THE ENTIRE UNIVERSE AT OUR
DISPOSAL TO GO OUT AND EXPLORE.
GROWING UP IN FLORIDA, FOR ME,
IT WAS A LOT ABOUT EXPLORATION.
I LIVED ON THE GULF OF MEXICO.
I LIVED ON THE GULF OF
MEXICO. I HAD MY OWN BOAT.
I HAD MY OWN BOAT. I
SPENT MOST OF MY DAYS
I SPENT MOST OF MY DAYS
EXPLORING SWAMPS AND ESTUARIES
AND THINGS LIKE THAT, SPACES
LIKE THE OCEAN THAT I GREW UP
SITTING ON THE EDGE OF, AND I
FEEL LIKE AS HUMANITY WE'RE ON
THE SURFACE OF THE PLANET WHICH
IS LIKE THE SHORE AND WE'RE
READY TO FINALLY GO OUT AND SEE
READY TO FINALLY GO OUT AND
SEE WHAT'S OUT IN THE OCEAN.
WHAT'S OUT IN THE OCEAN. MY
NAME IS JASON DUNN AND THIS
MY NAME IS JASON DUNN AND THIS
IS MY "BRIEF BUT SPECTACULAR"
TAKE ON WHY OUR FUTURE MAY BE
TAKE ON WHY OUR FUTURE
MAY BE MADE IN SPACE.
> If>ill: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, WE CONTINUE OUR SERIES
ONLINE, WE CONTINUE OUR
SERIES "RACE TODAY."
"RACE TODAY." ONE OF
THE MOST OUTSPOKEN AND
ONE OF THE MOST OUTSPOKEN AND
INFLUENTIAL ORGANIZERS IN THE
"BLACK LIVES MATTER" MOVEMENT,
DERAY MCKESSON, WRITES ABOUT
FERGUSON AS A FLASHPOINT
FERGUSON AS A FLASHPOINT FOR
TODAY'S SOCIAL MEDIA-DRIVEN
FOR TODAY'S SOCIAL MEDIA-DRIVEN
CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT.
CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT. PLUS,
WHAT CAN A 5,000-YEAR OLD
PLUS, WHAT CAN A 5,000-YEAR OLD
ABOUT THE COMPETITIVE NATURE OF
ABOUT THE COMPETITIVE
NATURE OF ITS IN HABITANTS?
ITS IN HABITANTS? WE
TRAVELED TO A NEOLITHIC
WE TRAVELED TO A NEOLITHIC
VILLAGE IN SCOTLAND TO SEE WHAT
"KEEPING UP WITH THE JONES'S"
LOOKED LIKE IN PREHISTORIC
LOOKED LIKE IN
PREHISTORIC TIMES.
TIMES. ALL THAT AND
MORE IS ON OUR WEB
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEB SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
SITE, pbs.org/newshour. >>
Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S
THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF. >>
Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
JOIN US ONLINE, AND AGAIN HERE
TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERSON.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU
AND GOOD NIGHT.